**Marc Andreessen at Startup School SV 2016-NEOR0AJsziE.mp4**

\[00:00:00\] We have a fireside chat with Mark Andriessen coming up.
Mark I think he\'s right back there. They know who you are. No
introductions needed. So thanks for coming back. This is your third
Startup School and I think maybe you are the only person who\'s been on
stage both as a founder and now as an investor. So I will go through
your history. But what I\'d like you to kind of talk us through is how
you came to the decision after starting a bunch of tech companies to
become an investor. There are a lot of venture funds that exist so why
and how different.

\[00:00:45\] Yeah the big thing we came up Ben and I came up in the 90s
in the industry and at that point venture The good news is venture
capital had professionalized and so you had these great venture firms
Kleiner Perkins some Americans and others that had gotten really good at
what they did. Part of the professionalization was they had tilted very
strongly away from founder CEOs and terms professional CEOs. And there
were good reasons for that. We can discuss but our view of the industry
is that not all but many of the best companies in the industry are run
by their founders for a long period of time.

\[00:01:16\] So IBM run by the Watson to Watson is actually father and
son Hewlett Packard run by Hewlett Packard for 50 years. Many other you
know many examples Microsoft or Oracle.

\[00:01:27\] Many others the model have just kind of drifted away from
that that kind of a default mood became bring in the professional CEO.
What do you mean by professional see professional CEO. So the basic
thing is because there is what they want is what they would say which is
what they said at one point which is oh so what are you guys going to
hire a real CEO. So you know this is a general version of that answer
the specific thing. When they say professional CEO generally they talk
about somebody with a lot of business in a particular sales experience.
So somebody who\'s very comfortable with taking something you know
taking something that somebody has built Engineers had built in the lab
and then taking it out into the world. And so it\'s everything raising
money marketing sales finance all organization management all the things
involved in building the business and the company around the product.
And so we just you know we have this idea that if we want to tilt things
back a little bit now we\'re not religious about the founder CEO and
there are a lot of founders who don\'t actually want to be the CEO or
want to partner with a great CEO.

\[00:02:29\] And then there are also founders who can\'t be the CEO and
so you know there\'s sort of no I there\'s no concept of CEO tenure
right. So it\'s not a guaranteed position. You do have to reform it if
you don\'t perform by the way it\'s not the fees that are your problem
is that your company collapses and so you know it is important performed
but we did believe in the generalized model that founders are really
important and the founder CEO is a good model and you can have it and so
it just what we observed was there was not at that point a venture
capital firm that really had developed an operating model around how to
do that. And so we decided to start our firm and then we decided to
really on on two things. Has been our big areas of focus for the last
seven years so one is all of our general partners have built and run
companies before. And so we like to talk about the importance of having
people on your board who have been through the struggle. Ben in his book
The Hard Thing About Hard Things he talks about the struggle being just
all the stuff that goes wrong when you\'re trying to accomplish
something big. I call it the ship. He\'s more polite than I am. But
it\'s just all the stuff that happens. You know we could talk for hours
about. Tapped somebody on board who\'s really been through it it\'s all
over all of our GPE by definition fits that criteria. The other thing
that we did and this is a huge part of the front for us today is we
built a whole operating model around basically we call it giving the
founders super powers basically the equivalent capability give a founder
who\'s not operated a business before the ability to operate like a
professional CEO would be able to if they just walked in the door. And a
lot of that has to do with network. And so the network of all the
customers that you\'re going to sell to the network to offer all the
later on investors are going to raise money from the network of all the
big industry companies. You have to work with the network of all the
reporters that you want to get your story out the network of all the
engineers that you need to recruit the network of all the executives
that you need to recruit the network of all the regulators and
policymakers that you need to deal with and a lot of these businesses.
So we now have 85 full time professionals in the firm build and run
these very large networks on behalf of the portfolio and so a founder
works with us. Jeff Jeff with 200 new products described it as you plug
into the matrix you just kind of instantaneously get this upgrade as a
new CEO or even a even experience you just get this big upgrade or all
of a sudden you\'re plugged into the world at scale and that\'s working
pretty well.

\[00:04:41\] What did you think about this back in 2006 you done before
the firm started to evolve as you as you can build firm.

\[00:04:49\] Yes so that\'s all evolved and we\'ve we\'ve had a whole
bunch of people join the firm that have helped us figure this out and
run all these all these all these all these teams and networks for us
that really helped us helps us advance our thinking but the core idea
was there you know sort of a16 he was a startup and you know having done
startups before we went we were big fans of thinking it through and
having a differentiated strategy and so we spent about a year and a half
planning this out before we started the firm and these ideas were at the
core of it.

\[00:05:15\] So a lot of first time founders and the audience and kind
of raising money as we just kind of pitch practice here is a little bit
of a black box. What is the very precise way that you know it\'s a
process that you use to work with companies. They get a hold of you and
what actually happens after the first e-mail.

\[00:05:33\] Yeah. So I would really separate fundraising and this has
got a lot more complicated in the last few years in good ways a separate
fundraising fundraising from Angel seed investors Accelerator\'s you
know sort of accelerate around precede rounds seed rounds seed extension
rounds post seed rounds to put all those in one basket and there and
that\'s you know that\'s a process that we see wisely plugs into and
Demo Day and organize around that. And you know your friends who have
had a start up have been through that and so there\'s there\'s there\'s
a whole art to that and that\'s that\'s a lot of what gets talked about.
Then there comes a time when you engage in a different kind of
fundraising. And what I would call it institutional fundraising. And I
think that really starts with a formal Series A or anything equivalent
to a formal series. It also applies. By the way if you\'re going to go
try to raise money from you know a corporate investor whatever it is an
institutional process you\'re dealing with somebody who is running a
highly professionalized firm you know with real fiduciary responsibility
back to their Opie\'s you know their firm lot of venture first men in
business for 30 40 50 years. There\'s a way of doing things and things
just get more formal. And so I think that that\'s the first really
important thing to think about. And you know when we we\'re actually
schizophrenic on this because we do a lot of the sea at the sea level
and we\'ve tested the sea level it\'s a lot like dealing with any other
state investor it\'s you know are you smart you have a really good idea
of a great. And let\'s see how it goes. But when it\'s a five or 10 or
15 million dollar a round or B round then things get more serious.

\[00:07:05\] And so when you Minteer so let\'s say I\'m raising that 10
million dollar a around a year to give you an e-mail and say hey and
then I come in and what happens is is it just a series of meetings and
then diligence and then you have a big check like in those game shows
that show up at your house when you\'re least expecting it.

\[00:07:25\] So really it really puts the spouses.

\[00:07:30\] So the first thing is how do you actually get get in and so
there\'s there\'s this there\'s actually an argument that kind of plays
out on this topic in the valley which is the importance of what it
called Warm referrals or warm introductions. And so the way that most of
the top and venture capital firms work is basically don\'t take you
seriously if you come in introduced by somebody they\'ve worked with
before and they won\'t take you seriously if you don\'t and there is an
argument that plays out in the valley which is that that\'s sort of
unfair and unreasonable and you know what about all these you know you
guys talk about all these whiners all over the world and like why can\'t
they have access the way the people who are already connected can the
argument in favor of the warmer first is that it\'s the it\'s the first
test and it\'s the first test of the ability to basically network your
way to the investor. And basically the way the investor thinks about it
is if you can\'t figure out a way to network your way to a vesi firm
which is of course in the business of meeting founders then you\'re
unlikely to be able to network your way into hiring a great team or
network your way into selling your product to customers. So actually I
think that the role the former furless is is is misinterpreted. I think
you see it as like it\'s the first test. And so I think it\'s a test you
just want pass you don\'t want to take any chances on that. The good
news is if if you\'re connected to see if you\'re connected into the
valley Angel seed ecosystem that\'s a very easy test to pass. If you\'re
not connected in NYC then you know the thing to do is to get to the
valley right or get into the network and get it. You don\'t get it
twice.

\[00:08:47\] Good luck if you\'re not into connected NYC. Yeah I see why
he has been a huge like why he has really widened the aperture for
founders to be able to plug into this process and I think in a very
healthy way. So that works really well. So that\'s the first is the
warmer for all. Then there\'s two theories. One is go and hide. There\'s
going to.

\[00:09:05\] And you know one theory is you\'ll hear sometimes is you
know only ever talked to senior partners at the firm so don\'t waste any
time with the more junior partners the younger people in the firm
because they can\'t make the decision pull the trigger. The counter
argument is that the senior partners at these firms make very little
very few decisions from scratch the senior partners only get to invest
in a few companies a year each. And they make very few of those
decisions if they\'re going to make a decision on their own without any
work done by the junior people in the firm it\'s probably going to be
somebody they\'ve already worked with before. So it\'s actually really
hard from a sort of standing start to get just a straight yes from a
senior partner. So the thing that works better and the thing that I
would do if I were you know 20 to 25 again I think there\'s a huge
advantage to coming in with a junior people and get networked into the
firm and spent a lot of time with the junior people understanding no one
just like pre flighting like how is this coming across like how is this
going to be received because you know they can read the minds of the
senior partners. They can tell you how these things are going to receive
and they can help you. And then also frankly the senior partners are
different like ours look to the younger people a lot of like OK. What\'s
interesting and we count on the younger people to stay very connected
especially to the first time founders. So I really encourage people to
actually take take the younger people in these firm seriously. So from
that usually the process is a first meeting with one one one of those
folks which might then lead to a second meeting with a broader group of
those folks. Maybe with one or two general partners so you kind of have
this kind of wind up kind of period and you\'re kind of working through
it.

\[00:10:29\] And we\'re talking about days weeks months.

\[00:10:31\] You know it depends in a hot environment. It\'s you know
days two weeks because you see you assume that deals go down relatively
quickly. And you know for the last several years I think days two weeks
has been the expectation. I will tell you in the cold environments you
know in 2003 you know we\'re talking six months nine months 12 months
right. This is nothing but time because it was so hard for anybody to
raise money for anything. You could just let these these these things
play out for a long time. These days it\'s days two weeks we try to move
in days to a small number of weeks. Then the big event is to then
progressed through one or two or three meetings and then the way you
really know you\'re making progress is if you get invited to present to
the full partnership.

\[00:11:12\] And that\'s usually at most firms on Monday Monday meeting
and that\'s a formal like that\'s a full on formal and that\'s like all
the general partners at the firm are there like the whole firm is there.
Well like sometimes we\'ll have 40 people in the room for that.

\[00:11:23\] People come in it\'s like present in the army but like we
get everybody and the founder actually just presents company and yeah I
did a presentation and then this gets in another debate which is like
okay you know you guys like you go on and on about like creativity all
this stuff. Why do you want the founder to stand up there like you know
like an idiot for 50 minutes reading off a PowerPoint slides. You know
like why don\'t we just like why don\'t we have a conversation why
don\'t we do things casual why don\'t we. Why didn\'t you do more
research upfront. Like why do we do this formal presentation. And again
I think again I think that\'s misinterpreted. I think the formal
presentation is another test which is as a founder if you\'re not good
enough at your job as a CEO to get up and present to an investor for 60
Minutes and sell them on your thing like we\'re easy. This is the thing
I thinkMr. about these firms exist to give out money like like work like
we love when somebody walks in has a compelling pitch and we can give
them a check. Like that\'s a successful day for us. In contrast every
other pitch you\'re ever gonna make is going to be to somebody who\'s
going to be much worse than us like. So customers are going to be like
you know no I\'m not going to give you any money. Like is their default
position right. You know engineers you\'re gonna try to recruit
engineers and they\'ve got 20 other job offers. Right.

\[00:12:29\] And so why is your pitch going to be so much better than
the other 20 startups right. And so again I just I view that as like
that\'s the second big test which is can you successfully execute a
formal pitch. And then if that goes well then generally you go in do you
know if its like super super smoking hot you could you could move to
Germany very quickly after that. Usually it\'s a week or two of
additional work to kind of have some more discussions. Very soon we\'ll
follow up. You kind of get into the process of the venture firm really
trying to make sure they understand what you do. You start to negotiate
the term sheet and then at some point you have a term sheet and how many
checks do you write a year.

\[00:13:04\] So we see 2000 startups a year that are warm referrals and
we can say yes for it at the institutional level for A\'s or B\'s we can
say yes to about 20. And we\'re a pretty high scale four or eight
general partners. And so we\'re and we\'re up and you know large fund
size and so we operate at scale there are other Top End firms that will
say yes three or four or five times a year. And so by the way like on
the one hand that\'s very daunting which is like well you know like
that\'s 1 percent right it\'s 1 percent of warmer for us. Basically it
so that seems very daunting.

\[00:13:38\] I could just tell you on the other hand it goes back to
this concept of the tests like it\'s not that hard to get good at this
part like. And so I just I think it\'s worth the time to really
understand and get good at how to how to how to get networked and how to
make that pitch. Because if you\'re good at that then like I said when
it comes time to go sell your product to a customer when it comes time
to go hire somebody those same skills reapply in the exact same way. And
I think people people should just people should just founders should
just get good at that.

\[00:14:05\] So there\'s a pretty big you know gap between kind of an
average engineer and a really great engineer and there\'s at least a
test of that. How do you know an investor is actually good if you\'re a
founder and you\'re raising money for the first time or you haven\'t
raised much money.

\[00:14:21\] So I think I have five key ways that a founder can know
whether an investor is good and they are references references
references references and references.

\[00:14:29\] The third one that references references evidently
important.

\[00:14:34\] So the good news with the valley is the super network.

\[00:14:37\] As a consequence of that you know people know I\'m the
founder and I know I\'m going to seed fund B. What does it mean to do a
reference. Well I just find people have invested before.

\[00:14:49\] Yeah I mean there\'s sort of two different kinds of
references there are so-called front door references which as you just
you asked me like you know who should I talk to and I\'ll give you a
list of people who I hopefully know will say good things about me
sometimes I\'m wrong. Then there\'s those the backdoor references Right
which which is which is which is usually where the value is which is
people who have worked with the investor before other entrepreneurs or
people who have been at companies that that investor has funded or by
the way for that matter other investors. Right. You can reference like
the way a lot of these CEOs get reference chukkas when you know the
angels and see angel investors or seed investors. If you\'re in Y C the
Y C partners otherwise you founders the Internet Twitter you know these
discussions take place all over the place now so. So I think you just
you try to. It\'s just like anything else when you\'re evaluating people
as you just try to get to other people who\'ve work with them in the
past.

\[00:15:39\] Again I think that\'s a general skill. I think that\'s a
good thing to know how to do because if you can reference an investor it
also means you can reference a candidate. Right. Which is really
critically important. I will just tell you like in the valley like in
the valley there is a way to hire great people and it involves
preferences references references you just everybody who\'s got chid one
list.

\[00:15:59\] Let\'s have a look first reference check. What should I
listen to. That is like the double talk. This is not a good investor.
This is not a good.

\[00:16:06\] Oh yeah. So it\'s all it\'s all a little tells. Right. So
it\'s all in the light. If somebody is good they\'re like enthusiastic
they\'re going to be part of the team like this this person is great.
You should take their money like if you can get them on their board you
know you\'re bored or you\'re lucky if you get anything other than that
right. That\'s like trouble. Right. And it\'s it\'s like the silence is
like you know so what\'s the person like on board meetings.

\[00:16:26\] And then there\'s like the silence. Then there\'s like the
breath like you know it\'s like OK well you know we here we come.

\[00:16:37\] Or you know the other thing is that you know a lot of
people don\'t want to say bad things about people even even when nobody
else is listening and so they\'ll say these lukewarm.

\[00:16:44\] My favorite is like well they\'re very punctual laughter
sharp socks always on time right. Very well dressed.

\[00:16:53\] You know I always write donuts. Yeah.

\[00:16:55\] So you just you got to look even for the back burner the
front of references that\'s what you listen for Buddy. But the macro
references even still that\'s what you listen for and even when it\'s
people who you know really well they still may not actually tell you the
full thing. And so you just you just want to test really carefully. I
just think it\'s a it\'s an incredibly useful skill if you learn how to
do it. You can basically test this out on investors and then and then
when it when it does matter for investors but then what it also really
matters is when you\'re hiring especially executives later on.

\[00:17:22\] So

\[00:17:22\] let\'s step back a little bit. Lots of founders investors
look up to you in your ideas. Who do you look up to and how do you make
sure your ideas are actually like continue to be good. Yeah.

\[00:17:33\] So. So I\'m a big fan of history. So there is a sort of a
classic cliché in the valley which is like we don\'t respect history
very much and a lot of people who visit the valley for the first time
that\'s their impression because they don\'t have people who have had
this experience firsthand. Vanity is like I wanna look I want to see
something about I want to drive around to see Silicon Valley. It\'s like
good luck with that right. Like okay there\'s a freeway. There\'s a
strip mall. There\'s there\'s an office park there\'s a security guard
who won\'t let me in the office park like there is no physical history
here. Right. Really. And then and then in the conversations I mean
we\'re all about the future like we\'re building the future and so I
think there is this national tendency to assume that the past isn\'t
very relevant and I actually think I should criticize a little bit. You
know there\'s sort of the Elan school of thought now which is very
strong in the valley which is sort of think everything through from
first principles which has its huge strengths for sure but it does kind
of dismiss the idea that people who came before us had anything to teach
us. And my general view is that people who came before us had a harder
time doing what they did than we do because the world was in a more
immature state like they didn\'t have all the they didn\'t necessarily
you know start off started before 50 years ago didn\'t have venture
capital right. They didn\'t. There\'s a lot of things that started 20
years ago didn\'t have the internet. Things were harder in the past and
so the people who were successful in the past I think were often better
than we are because they had to be because it was harder and so like
going in that in the past in the tech industry. And I\'ll just recommend
a few books so I think that the origin of stories of companies. IBM
there\'s a fantastic book about Thomas Watson senior who built IBM by
Kevin Maty. And if you think that Steve Jobs is rough was rough on
people he had nothing on Thomas Watson senior stuff. The book is The
book has transcripts of executive staff meetings at IBM in the 1930s and
1940s. And let\'s just say he was an absolute terror and built an
extraordinary company and so he\'s a real role model not terror.

\[00:19:24\] Be careful. This is an interpretive Bill Hewlett Packard.

\[00:19:29\] Michael Malone wrote a great book called Bill and Dave
talks about how each got built over the course of 30 or 40 years by Bill
and Dave. And then I like going back further. So I like Edison. I like
what was called the second industrial revolution a lot we\'re like you
got electricity and you got cars so there\'s a great Edison book called
The Wizard of Menlo Park. It\'s really good. There\'s a great Ford book
called I invented the modern age. And if you go back and read the
history of cars a hundred years ago Detroit a hundred years ago was a
lot like it was a lot more like Silicon Valley today than I think people
people don\'t understand. In fact Henry Henry Ford like Ford Motor
Company was not his first company right. So there\'s there\'s there\'s
all these very interesting back stories and then I think you can go back
even further I like going back and this is not to compare us to this but
just as inspiration and role models. Florence you know. The time of the
murder. Leonardo da Vinci I just got this great book called Divinity\'s
robots and it turns out DaVinci while he was doing everything else that
he did in life. He was also designing robots. And in his you know sketch
books there are fully fledged designs for like everything mechanical you
know all the Boston Dynamics. He was like inventing this stuff 500 years
ago didn\'t quite have that you know didn\'t quite have the technology
to be able to pull it off couldn\'t quite go to couldn\'t go to a team
and get the microcontroller. So he had some issues but you know he\'s an
inspiration. There\'s another great book called the Lunar man about
something called the Lunar Society which was in England about 250 years
ago like James Watt invented the steam engine and all these other guys
who were doing this kind of thing back then all worked together. They
had kind of a why they think back then. And so it\'s all basically it\'s
just you know what it is you\'re trying to look for OK. The world as you
know points in time the world is the way it is.

\[00:21:13\] Everybody takes it for granted and then there\'s a person
or some set up usually a set of people who think no no there\'s a better
and you know different and better way to do things and then just all the
practical challenges involved in causing that kind of change to happen
and trying to build you know whether it\'s a new thing you\'re trying to
build a new movement of some kind or a new kind of art.

\[00:21:30\] And I think there\'s all kinds of lessons to be drawn from
all that and extract ideas from those those people or because there is I
think one of the one of the problems of being in the valley is there\'s
just such an echo chamber of opinions for every opinion there is a
counter opinion it is just as loudly and aggressively drummed. How do
you how do you separate what is actually good advice and what is not
good advice as a founder.

\[00:21:55\] Yeah well you just can\'t you go back and guess what Tiger
history is like it\'s always hard. And so we just like Henry Ford as an
example like there was nothing easy about building a motor company or
Thomas Edison there was nothing easy about electricity like electricity
and talked about like you would think that that would be a relatively
easy thing to get people to want. And it turns out there was actually a
lot of effort and work involved in getting people to think that was a
good idea. And so it\'s just it\'s it\'s it\'s so it\'s goes back to
Ben\'s idea of the struggle. It\'s just there is so much work and effort
involved there are so many false starts there are so many things that
can go wrong. And I think you draw on all the different lessons and
theories from then and now and you kind of view them as a metal tool kit
to draw on. But I\'ll just say one of our beliefs. The band also talks
about his book as there\'s there\'s no silver bullet like there\'s the
temptation when you get kind of in in the show.

\[00:22:43\] It\'s always like there\'s got to be a way out of this and
it\'s got to be one thing if there\'s got to be some idea already a
point some piece of advice right or some way to reframe reframe the
picture this way or if I could just hire this person or just get this
customer or something you know it\'s going to fix everything and we
always like to say there are no silver bullets. They\'re only let
bullets. And so you just have to kind of do all the work and most of the
work is just a grinding it\'s just you know grinding labor and there\'s
just no substitute for it.

\[00:23:10\] And I think that frankly I think that comes out of the
history as well so what do you think is you know we\'re we\'re kind of
heading in the tail end of 2016 lots in store in the next couple two
years two and a half years for the start up ecosystem and are in a lot
of talk in a lot of different opinions about both in verticals and
verticals handling and just to the larger community and the ecosystem.

\[00:23:34\] Yeah so I guess you know maybe two to two schools of
thought so you\'re all probably well aware. Experts have been declaring
an imminent bubble and crash continuously since 2004. So we\'re now in
year 13 next year will be year 14 of declarations of an imminent dot com
crash redux all over again. They are these the people who predict this
are getting increasingly frustrated that it hasn\'t happened and
increasingly irate that we\'re all still here. You know maybe they\'re
right and we\'ve just completely inflated you know dot com bubble2.0 and
we\'re just it\'s just now we\'re just delaying until the inevitable
crash.

\[00:24:13\] It\'s possible.

\[00:24:15\] You know mean you seem skeptical and I\'m skeptical of that
because the other the other the other theory right. So the other theory
is we\'ve we\'ve entered a phase of the industry where you know some
things are just working now and in particular right the Internet that
it\'s working now which if you were here 20 years ago that was not
necessarily a certain thing and like the internet works. Mobile works
the smart phone works. You got one with the new Apple headphones will
work. You know some stuff is just starting to work. And so you\'ve got
these marvelous. You know you\'ve got this giant giant install base.

\[00:24:48\] Now people all over the world on the Internet. You\'ve got
this massive growing consumer acceptance of e-commerce. You\'ve got
these giant new social platforms. You\'ve got these you know all these
new these new playbooks are how to build these companies. You\'ve got
the rise of developer adoption of enterprise technology like a whole
thing that\'s working now. And so these things are working at a very big
scale. And each of these things the big things at work are all platforms
to build on top of opportunities for more things to than get built right
on top. And so I just think a lot of those things are working really
well. So which isn\'t to say that everything\'s working right and so I
think the Valley and startups will always be characterized by you know
there will always be what\'s called a power locker. You\'ll always have
some big successes and then you\'ll have a long tail of things that
don\'t work and you\'ll have a bunch of stuff in the middle and you
always get this kind of distribution of success. But you have enough
things that are working at scale that are serious. And so you know I
think the things that are working are working really really well.

\[00:25:42\] Think in terms of do you believe in this kind of thematic
of these three or four markets are these three or four spaces the next
couple of years are really going to be most likely the places where some
of these outlying returns are going to sit. Or are you more agnostic.

\[00:25:56\] Yeah we\'re totally schizophrenic on that point. So anybody
in the field can\'t resist talking about this all the time. And by the
way there is substance to it right. It\'s like there was there was a
point at which you know there was a point that between you know when the
iPhone came out to probably 2012 was like there\'s this point where all
the mobile killer apps that are going to be on the homescreen of the
iPhone we\'re going to get built. And by the way got built. There was a
point where you know early earlier there was a point when the piece came
out that all theP.C. killer apps are going to be built. So there are
these things that happen. These new platforms get established and then
there\'s this period of time where things get built on top. There\'s a
bunch of candidates for that today that are very exciting so broadly I
give a few examplesA.I. machine learning deep learning as one cluster of
things very you know tons of activity happening in the intersection of
biology healthcare and computer science. Big cluster of things happening
there. Transportation right autonomous ground vehicles air vehicles
actually now see vehicles different kinds different sizes shapes
descriptions uses are really starting to click and you know we could
probably name another another half dozen so you know we you know what
part of our job is to track track those those field and try to try to
figure out the best startups. Do you guys actually track those fields.
Oh it\'s just a constant. It\'s just kind of the action of the firm the
flow of the firm so it\'s just constantly trying to review it trying to
understand trying to map a landscape to understand all the companies
trying to meet all the founders. So that\'s the one and I would just say
on the other hand on the other hand I would say that I don\'t think any
Veazey really does that good a job predicting these things in the sense
of first of all. So the big successes are so dependent on the specifics
they are contingent on the specifics and so it\'s the right hander with
the right idea with the right team with the right breakthrough at the
right time and the right market with the right pricing model it\'s all
these things have to come together and you just you never my experience
is you just never know when that when that company is going to
crystallize and that often happens five or ten years after you think it
should and then it can often be the case that you get these companies
that are breakthrough companies in fields that people thought were dead.
So we had just had this company Itanium people written about now which
is a security company. And it\'s in a field where I think a lot of you
see sort of the opportunity to build big franchises was over and like
this company is growing like unbelievably fast very very specific set of
people who are really interested in the woman became available at a
certain point to go after it. They\'re going after it. You knowV.M.
where as another great example virtualization or popular as
virtualization virtualization was a 30 year old mainframe technology. It
goes back to the 1960s. Diane Greene and mental Rosenblum out of
Stanford meadowlarks Stanford and Diane had a son started Vima in 1999
at a time when everybody knew that like of software was on its way out
and it turned into one of the big breakthroughs Google hires like Google
was like the thirty fifth search engine.

\[00:28:43\] Right.

\[00:28:44\] There\'s like 34 other search engines had come along and
like we all knew for a fact that no one search didn\'t work like it
would give you crappy results. Number two there was no way to make money
on it like those two things we knew for sure.

\[00:28:55\] But you know as a founder that you are not to Erlick as you
know we talked to a lot of founders and how do you know that your thirty
fifth rather than maybe first or second date your timing is right.

\[00:29:06\] So my experience is the great founders almost always feel
like you almost always feel like you\'re too late and you\'re almost
always too early and you almost always feel like you\'re too late. The
reason is because for you it\'s become obvious like all of you I\'m
listening to this like you\'ve got some idea in your head and like as
far as you\'re concerned the world should already work this way which is
why you\'re pursuing it. And so to you it\'s a little bit inexplicable
as to why it hasn\'t happened yet and there must be 80 other people
going after the same idea. And it must be just about to happen. And I
must be too late. Which is just how I felt with this tape.

\[00:29:35\] I was too late. In retrospect we weren\'t.

\[00:29:40\] The reality is you\'re almost always too early. We almost
never see a qualified founder fail because they\'re too late to market.
It\'s almost always closer to a relative market. And I think by the way
and I don\'t say that critically I think we make when we screw up
investments I think that\'s often the reason as well. I think we\'re in
the exact same boat as the founder and in that degree which is we
believe it\'s going to happen therefore we invest in it just it just
turns out the way the history gets written as the world just wasn\'t
ready yet. So I always like to point out like the iPod is like this
breakthrough product in 2009 and you know Stapel my God I I these things
well.

\[00:30:10\] There was this thing called the Newton 20 years earlier in
1989 if you haven\'t heard of it. Look it up on Wikipedia. It was the
iPad 20 years earlier and it was like virtually the same thing in the
world just wasn\'t ready yet. The technologies were in place you didn\'t
have mobile broadband you didn\'t have the high resolution screens you
didn\'t have the battery technology and you just brought the thing in a
market crash and burn and it convinced people for 20 years that tablet
computing would never work. And then they did it again in the iPod and
it worked. And so I think that in a lot of ways that\'s the biggest risk
that the biggest conceptual risk we\'ll deal with is just that I think
that\'s the permanent curse of the entrepreneur.

\[00:30:45\] Yeah I remember you. You\'re going to talk I see one time
and you said you know if you the one way to figure out if your not too
late is if what you\'re working on was being hotly covered three four
years ago you\'re probably right on time because now the infrastructure
and consumer behavior is not caught up to what was exciting in 2012 13.
Last question you know do whatever fato whatever you lose everything and
at the end of the day today are 22 years old again. What do you start
with the company you would start.

\[00:31:15\] So if I\'m 22 again I think what I do is I go try to find
the best the the hottest company the company in the valley that\'s
growing the fastest and that has a really good culture and a really good
foundation for training. And so an example of that would be an urban
bee. But you know there are many others by the way still Facebook.

\[00:31:36\] I would go try to get a plant myself at a company where I
can really learn fast forward while you\'re 25 you\'ve got you\'ve got
three years that everybody is that now.

\[00:31:48\] Well so I spend that time someone as I worked my butt off
to establish a good reputation so that when people reference struck me
read a reference like well but the other is I spend that time thinking
and I really critically I spend that time building my network and the
people who I know that I want to work with you know down the road. And
then and then either. Yeah. Either come up with an idea or I don\'t but
I would focus so much. I think it\'s very hard and I\'m deliberately
avoiding your question because I think it\'s very hard to answer in the
abstract. Let me answer in a different way if I were 18 and I were going
to college. I would do I would really I would do computer science again
in a heartbeat. And then I would either focus on cryptocurrency
distributed systems and broad domain of cryptocurrency number one number
two a machine learning deep learning or number three intersection of bio
biology and CSIRO genomics and synthetic biology. I would personally I
would do those one of those three areas. And the hard part for me would
be picking between them because I think they\'re all they\'re all to me
it\'s just like all three of us are going to have transformative work
happen in the next 20 years is going to change a lot of how the world
works.

\[00:32:49\] Awesome. Thank you for your time. Thanks.

\[00:32:52\] Bradley.
