**Office Hours with Kevin Hale and Qasar Younis at Startup School SV
2016-TZLlcyJfZBs.mp4**

\[00:00:05\] Dramatic entrance was easy easily placeable crowd.

\[00:00:16\] We have a favor to ask of all of you guys out there how
many people follow JUSTIN ON SNAPCHAT. All right. Great. So Justin\'s
not here.

\[00:00:27\] But there should be punishment for there should be
punishment for that. So just send him a message if everybody sends a
message right now. It\'s going to completely mess up his phone a few
hundred messages to Justin right now would be appreciated. We\'ll give
you ten seconds. Kastor says hi. Ok so my name is Casser UNICE.

\[00:00:45\] I\'m one of the partners there. We don\'t have a clicker.
Clickety click. That\'s Kevin Hill. He\'s one of the other partners
here. Why see one of the things that we do at why you\'re one of the
kind of core things you do see is office hours. And there are three
types of office hours we do in the program. The first is individual
office hours where a partner will sit down with you and talk about a
specific problem that the company has and really dive in deeply. And
that\'s going to emulate here onstage stage. Today most of the partners
are using their own experiences as being founders and being engineers or
whatever the problem might be to help kind of solve that problem. One of
the things that I say in a lot of partners is when I\'m giving advice I
don\'t tell you or the companies that will be up here what they should
do. I can only tell what I would do if I was in your position. And
obviously we\'re different people the founders who were running
companies are different from us different context and different
experiences. So it just ends up being a blueprint of how to solve from
one from another person\'s problem. So anyways individual offers are
something we do. We also do this thing called group office hours where
multiple partners will sit together and then six or seven startups will
sit together we do a biweekly. When you\'re in NYC and then the third
type of office hours we do are external office hours will bring an apple
or bring in Android to help with the app storesetc. So today we\'re
emulating the first time. Now couple of key points here is this is kind
of a bad example because we don\'t do them on stage in front of hundreds
of thousands of people. So naturally this kind of presentation is
slightly awkward for that reason. Number two is we tend to be pretty
direct in office hours and obviously doing in front of a group of people
is where we\'re gonna kind of temper had a little bit. And I also want
to just in advance think the startups who are kind of brave enough out
here to talk through the problems that they\'re having with us.

\[00:02:39\] So thanks and apologies in advance.

\[00:02:44\] I don\'t think 90 percent of you guys out there volunteer
to like do office hours on stage with us.

\[00:02:50\] So like I\'m super delighted that you guys gave us
opportunity to look at sort of like all the ideas you\'re working on.

\[00:02:56\] And then one last point is these are these are not pitches.
So we\'re actually you know we\'re going to try to avoid from going into
what do do and why is it so great much more and kind of diving into a
problem. We actually are doing a pitch section afterwards so you\'ll see
how that\'s how that\'s different because that\'s office hours.

\[00:03:13\] Three companies that we picked today. We did on a theme.
This is all that different from other times that we\'ve done this. All
three companies are marketplace companies. And the reason we pick that
is because they\'re very different kind of startup when you\'re working
with them. So most companies when you work with it well you\'ll notice
that like it\'s tends not to be a zero sum game. So they\'re usually in
any space there can be multiple winners but in a marketplace kind of
play it tends to be one kind of company tends to end up dominating over
everyone else. And the thing is like when you can make that happen that
can make you very very large and very very lucrative and investors get
very excited about marketplaces. The category that we\'ve seen actually
lots of different investment firms and people are very interested in
very specifically. That being said they work a little bit different in
terms of how you work with them and tends to be always kind of the
similar kind of approach. You try to identify what supply what demand
what side you\'re going to be working on. So we\'re going to see this
kind of thematic thing where all three of them even though they\'re very
different companies have very similar approaches in terms of how we ask
questions how we think about their problems and how we should go from
there. That\'s it. Let\'s rock and roll first company is traveling spume
it\'s good man. All right.

\[00:04:22\] A warm welcome welcome.

\[00:04:35\] I think the camera guys are not having. Has he. Yeah I
think they see much more explicitly said don\'t move the chairs and the
first thing I do is move the chair. Sorry.

\[00:04:46\] So tell us your names and tell us about what traveling
spume does.

\[00:04:50\] I\'m Steph Lawrence. I\'m Ashley Vale. We\'re the founders
of traveling spoon traveling souvenirs food and travel market place. So
we connect travelers with local authentic food experiences from meals to
cooking classes to market tours all with local people in their homes
around the world.

\[00:05:06\] So I\'m going to let\'s say Thailand and then I would how
would I find about your jobs. How to find that you exist. It\'s just me
going to Thailand.

\[00:05:16\] Welcome to our first challenge question. So a lot of our
travelers hear about it through word of mouth right now and finding the
right channels is one of our our challenges that we\'re excited to talk
to you about. But right now most of our travelers find out about us
either through word of mouth through press or also through some of our
partners. So we work with partners who are distributing supply like our.
So travel experiences.

\[00:05:42\] So the first question I usually ask about the marketplace
I\'m asking about sort of like what is the conditions of the two sides
that you\'re trying to grow. And then how well are they being connected.
So like what do you guys consider supply. What do you guys sort of
conspiracy demand. My instinct is the supply is the people who are
offering meals inside of their homes and then the demand is all the
travelers that happens on there. What\'s the rate of growth for each one
of those.

\[00:06:07\] So you\'re absolutely right. Our supply side consists of
amazing hosts who give to us cooking classes and meals. We have over 225
hosts now in 40 destinations in 20 countries 50 percent of that growth
has happened through host referrals and we\'ve been growing the supply
side of the marketplace 50 percent in the last six months.

\[00:06:28\] Undersupply is a reason you\'re in so many countries and so
distributed because I mean if you look I guess why would you have chosen
a country like Cambodia and just say we\'re gonna get a bunch of hosts
there so if we\'re going to Cambodia we\'re definitely gonna get a
match.

\[00:06:42\] Yeah it\'s a great question and one of the first questions
we got from every single investor we talked with beginning was this
question of a breadth first depth for us where it came down to that in
the travel marketplace specifically. You really need to have some
breadth to show relevance. So it is really hard for us to be how so.

\[00:06:59\] How did you came to that conclusion. Budget traveler said
like I won\'t use this Web site because you don\'t have 200 countries
covered yet.

\[00:07:05\] No not that. So a lot of it came from our suppliers who
would say you know we\'re sending travelers to Cambodia Vietnam
Thailand. We want experiences in all of those destiny. So sometimes
suppliers like some of our clients and partners that we\'re working with
so we have channel partners we sell directly through our Web site
driving\'s Green Dot Com and then we sell through some channel partners
as well. So some of that was coming through our partners. Some of it was
coming from directly from our travelers who said I traveled here and who
are the partner places tour operators people who will plan two week
trips from start to finish the NoW\'s demand growing. What\'s that rate.
Yeah. So demand. So we as a two sided marketplace. One of the challenges
is you have to kind of pick the crawling 30 percent month over month is
sort of our traveler side that\'s been going through.

\[00:07:48\] So that\'s healthy. To just like ideally first start up you
guys have been operating for how long. We launched our site a little
less than a year ago lessening a year ago. OK. So like at least 20
percent but 30 percent that\'s sort of growing but then that\'s just
people signing up are people actually like.

\[00:08:04\] Well that\'s that\'s revenue and traveler service so
travelers who have booked and then gone on and complete those disappear
as a pie chart of you know where they\'re hearing about the product. How
much is it these channels and how much is it word of mouth.

\[00:08:18\] So word of mouth is certainly a big part of direct growth
to working on advertising right now.

\[00:08:23\] Joe just like percentage like what. What percentage is 60
percent is direct and 40 percent is to our partners right. So what he
gets most worried about.

\[00:08:31\] Finding the point at which travelers are making those
experiences and planning their trips and booking with that. So how do we
get in front of travelers at the point of their decision making process.

\[00:08:42\] How

\[00:08:42\] do you get to travelers at the point of the decision making
process. So are the partners not good. I mean yeah.

\[00:08:48\] So we want to find more of the right partner. So we\'ve
started working with one partner who\'s serving almost 25 percent of our
of our travelers right now and we\'re trying to find more of them so who
are the right travel distribution partners that are that are supplying
travelers are we talking about hundreds thousands thousands maybe.

\[00:09:06\] I guess to me like the direct model doesn\'t correct me if
I\'m wrong. Druck well doesn\'t make sense because no one. Like if I\'m
traveling to Cambodia this year and maybe next year I traveled to India
like I have to remember your company and the chance of that actually
happening is really slim. One way to think about this I think about
applications is they fall into two categories apps that you wake up or
more products you wake up everyday news you open up gmail you open up
you know snapchat without thinking about opening those up. And then
there\'s a second group of apps which fulfills some mental query that
you have. So I\'m going to need a restaurant they look up Yelp and he
does need to address navigation. So I use Google Maps like so your
product falls into the second category. But the problem is you so
infrequently have that mental query you\'re no one\'s going to remember
it.

\[00:09:51\] That\'s the thing that makes me really nervous just like
this is not an activity that I\'m doing many many times like Uber has
advantage.

\[00:09:58\] It\'s like you might have people with you multiple times
even within a day not brushing your teeth it\'s not writing in October
and that\'s definitely something that we struggle with in terms of
finding finding the right customers.

\[00:10:07\] I mean our vision of a company with that context. Yeah why
not focus on channel partners because that\'s all they\'re doing.

\[00:10:14\] Yeah. So we\'ve drawn a lot of inspiration from urban bee
as an example of our vision for the company is to be a brand and to be a
brand for authentic meaning your vision for the company is grow and make
tons of money.

\[00:10:25\] Yeah.

\[00:10:26\] Yeah was like created a really great brand pushed back a
little bit. The mission is really important to us. We want to make a ton
of money.

\[00:10:33\] But the mission is why we started the company and we want
to just just interject there. Kevin isn\'t saying is like you just
shouldn\'t be like many Middle East.

\[00:10:43\] That\'s not the takeaway that these people keep saying yeah
it\'s not it\'s just a proxy for making sure that you\'re working on
something that people actually want. So it\'s important that you know I
think you can do both. Yeah. Just don\'t fool yourself and don\'t use
that as a rationalization for maybe an ineffective strategy. Yeah fair
enough. But I guess we should go back.

\[00:11:04\] One thing that\'s missing is there\'s this makes you have
all these partners. The thing is like you have all this word of mouth
growth what\'s the percentage is like 60 percent coming from word of
mouth and then what\'s the percentage that have really done a second
booking. We have 10 percent Reby travel in the last nine months 10
percent repeat travel in the last nine months going higher and higher
than expected.

\[00:11:27\] So if you take that context of people are not going to
remember your product for a while for many years. I think to me that
just is like you have to work with channel partners because that\'s
that\'s going to be the way that you that\'s what I would do. I don\'t
know what you would choose you should do. But for me I\'m thinking I got
to get that consistent growth. Word of mouth and having a brand that
people recall is very it takes a long long long time. I mean the kind of
benchmark in which that people automat remember you even Urbina even
today has that problem. And Airbnb is like a lot bigger than your brand.

\[00:12:00\] We have one minute left. Here\'s the thing. I feel like
they just started one of the big things that you need to think about is
like where there\'s like the most power hungry like users on the system
the people like one you\'re like channel partners who does like active
salesman on your behalf because you can\'t afford that for the price
acquisition that the other one is like. Where do you find people that
are addicted to the service right people who can use it over and over
and over again. Because like those little people that we both talk about
like are there like power travelers. People go back and forth the same
countries over an area where it\'s like every single time this is going
to be part of my experience that happens on there and then like like
does that sort of exist. Because otherwise it\'s just going to be slow
and steady. And so there\'s two types of companies that I get excited
about because there\'s two parts to like getting very very huge.
There\'s one that you have like everyone glorifies is the startup that
grows very very quickly. Like shoots up and they become like the sort of
great success overnight. There\'s another kind where it\'s just like you
do this solid sort of growth but you figure out like how do I make a
company that\'s going to last for 20 years. Right. And so the fact that
you\'re focused on is like we care a lot about the mission that set up
on there. But the thing is like what is the mission like it\'s the
mission is like I\'m passionate about feeding other people\'s food like
I\'m passionate about like helping these other people have income. I\'m
passionate about like having people having interesting travel
experience. Like three different things that happens on there. And the
real thing is like I think your core idea is just like when you travel
and you do it through us you could have something spectacular something
very different and the same thing would have been be like yeah it\'s a
lot cheaper but it\'s far more interesting as a result. And I think
that\'s like a similar idea that you need to have on here also going
back earlier in the conversation about breath versus that.

\[00:13:36\] I\'m still not convinced of breath strategy. Here is the
prudent one only because you can\'t find channel partners you can find
local agencies that work just in Thailand who can be booking hundreds if
not thousands of meals a week. That\'s where business becomes powerful
and the reason I think that approach that constituted approaches better
is once you find those power users the Kemalist argument you can figure
out how this will work in Thailand. Let\'s figure out what\'s going to
work in Myanmar\'s career.

\[00:14:04\] We\'re going to Indiaetc. And that\'s actually exactly what
we\'re doing now is focusing on Thailand specific.

\[00:14:10\] So my wife\'s Thai empire buys. That\'s right. Just like
that time is up.

\[00:14:16\] So with all companies what we\'re gonna talk afterwards
because this is just like such a weird thing to do.

\[00:14:22\] Yeah. So talk to all of them afterwards and just dive in
more so. Well thanks so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks.

\[00:14:27\] Applause.

\[00:14:34\] Next company a human surge would a name like a soft drink.

\[00:14:44\] My first question is how did you come up with that name. So
delicious. Me on that. OK.

\[00:14:51\] Do you want to do a quick introduction of who you are and
what the company does.

\[00:14:54\] Absolutely. My name is Luke SEO co-founder of human search.
It\'s a global emergency roster for humanitarian responders and we are
marketplaces bringing together aid workers around the globe and connect
them with organizations responding to disasters or emergencies in real
time on demand and will enable them to scale when needed.

\[00:15:15\] So that sounds really lovely Debbie. Are you nonprofit.

\[00:15:19\] No I\'m for profit. We\'re like a social enterprise seeking
social impact but yeah we founded the company as a as a for profit. We
actually thought first to launch a foundation or link up with the
nongovernmental organization but actually the sector needs this kind of
development of a platform it needs a read through process to go through
mortars like Kickstarter just to make sure I understand because being
machine gunned a little bit of the description is so a disaster happens
like a tsunami.

\[00:15:51\] I mean nonprofit I google. I need volunteers helpers and I
land on your Web site. And I basically order help. And then you send
volunteers based on the criteria put in.

\[00:16:04\] Is that right. Partially. And what happens indeed when
there\'s a major emergency aid organizations respond and they scale to
the operation. But we\'re talking not volunteers we\'re talking
renumerated professionals that work around the globe in crisis
situations. OK.

\[00:16:19\] Something to stop you there.

\[00:16:21\] So can I ask one question why a marketplace place why
isn\'t this just like why don\'t you have if you already have these
people what why was this concept of a marketplace there.

\[00:16:32\] They\'re struggling actually to scale operation and
therefore they are a non-profit organizations and other organization
responding to these kind of emergencies occurred over a decade in the
sector and I\'ve experienced it firsthand. Either with the incomplete
team or people missing on the team or you go for two three months and
they\'re asking you kindly if you want to stay because he didn\'t find a
replacement for you. Right.

\[00:16:54\] So how does the business model work. So you have all these
people signing up to volunteer and I take it you charge the nonprofits
for accessing that list.

\[00:17:03\] That\'s correct. Were the business model now is to get an
annual fee annual subscription to access database search and you can
search the platform is very much like you would search for a hotel or
flight nowadays you just say OK I need a logistician more five years of
experience has been in Africa before speak French. What whatever is the
criteria that you\'re looking for and you\'ll see the top candidates
that indeed recently confirm that they\'re available.

\[00:17:28\] I

\[00:17:28\] think we should take a look at that. Now though we\'ve
asked the questions we\'re going to do aU.S. review. OK. I know you\'re
like I\'m going sicut I\'m safe.

\[00:17:40\] Now you\'re not safe. We switched it up. OK.

\[00:17:42\] So we took a look at your Web site and what we decided to
do was just basically we don\'t go through what is the thing you most
want to optimize. What\'s the thing that drives the core of your
business your kind of Web site. It\'s very typical for lots of
marketplace websites that I look at. It makes the same kinds of mistakes
that a lot of them sort of make. So the first thing is like always
interested in sort of like how do I quickly understand sort of like what
this company sort of does and so like couldn\'t find the simple copy
paste sentence that was like on the regular website. Went to your about
page. You have this thing on here. I noticed as I talk to you you\'d
like to use lots of extra words clean things on there. And to me I\'m
just like yeah you know human searches are like mechanical turk orA.W.
asks for like volunteers for nonprofits and you know volunteers are
renumerated professionals who have set up on a can\'t remember that
you\'re ruining my word of mouth. It\'s important that there\'s an
important point there.

\[00:18:38\] It is hilarious but it\'s also an important point which is
you don\'t want to use words like that are that are we\'re putting up on
the overhead right now because they\'re loaded. They mean a lot of
different things to different people so and use a word like a single
platform platform can be like something that\'s like the water or it can
be like infrastructure a platform can be many many different things. So
you might think as a founder who is trying to describe a company I\'m
using clear words you\'re not because those words you interpreted many
different ways.

\[00:19:09\] The next thing I noticed is up in the upper left hand
corner you get this big label here that makes me not want to sign up.

\[00:19:17\] I\'m like I have to deal with a disaster. Right. It\'s like
better product. It\'s like if you just say don\'t try me. Right.

\[00:19:30\] So this thing is like I see so many companies that do this
all time they put in data. And here\'s what I thought was the best part
about your Web site you\'re Ephie. Q Your very first question is like
why are we in Bayda. Which is Yeah good question but basically what you
said it in here is just like hey this is basically we\'re still working
on it. Right. And we\'re going to be proving if something goes wrong let
us know.

\[00:19:57\] So you have eight times on our show when it was only you
know that. But.

\[00:20:02\] The thing is like every company you\'re going to be
consciously working on stuff and then you have issues you want them to
let go. There\'s nothing about you being in bed. Like all you\'re saying
is like I want insurance for like if I make a mistake.

\[00:20:12\] And quite frankly people are understanding of people.
Right. So the more you try to make yourself look like a faceless
organization the harder it\'s going to be for someone to be like
whatever happens on it. All you can do is be responsive and make things
work like enterprise. It\'s actually one of those things that are
counterintuitive for a lot of people work working enterprise and B2B
companies. They\'re just like what if I make a mistake or things that
happens on there be responsive fix things really quickly.

\[00:20:35\] You\'re smart you\'re creative you\'ll figure all that
slavery was a way for us to manage expectations a little bit with the
organizations and the professionals.

\[00:20:41\] The thing is like the best thing that could ever possibly
happen is that you have so much demand for your stuff on there and then
you figure that out. That\'s the problem that you want to have. Do not
ever be afraid or right. OK so let\'s go and do justice to just a pause
on this page for you.

\[00:20:55\] Before Kevin circled that call to action it\'s not obvious
what the called action is and that\'s a big deal. I think if you asked
you did a quick straw poll of the audience and you said what am I
supposed to click on. There were no and one way you can do it is you
just kind of squint and look at the page and try to figure out where do
your eyes go and they go to about four or five blue sections and logos
at the bottom.

\[00:21:16\] It\'s just not obvious what you want me to do.

\[00:21:18\] The thing is like it\'s because your market but you said I
have two sides therefore I need a Web site that does both. The thing is
like that\'s just never going to work really well even if you go to air
BMB or Uber A lot of different places. You see they\'re always optimized
for one side of their marketplace. So you need to decide like what\'s
the thing I most need to happen.

\[00:21:34\] And then the question is finally there will be our target
main target.

\[00:21:38\] All right. So my feeling is like a lot of the self serve is
going to come for the professionals it should be optimized for signing
up the professionals and the volunteers the organizations. That\'s what
you\'re going to be signing up doing B2B you\'re going out there you
you\'re hitting the pavement dabber that\'s going to be on a separate
landing page.

\[00:21:52\] Indirect him that was actually the second landing page into
the feud going on here than it would allow you immediately as a
professional to register your e-mails who are trying to direct people to
that second page.

\[00:22:01\] So one thing that is good about the land on this landing
page I think folks can take away from that last page is that the imagery
is very clearly you don\'t actually need to read any of the text to
understand generally what this what the product is about.

\[00:22:14\] So you do that well.

\[00:22:16\] All right. I\'m just gonna go to this real quick because
let\'s see what we\'re going to do is go through the process of signing
up as an organization doing the one thing that helps you make money. So
I clicked on that button and I get to this page and this page. This is
the top half of the page. It\'s a big map. Don\'t know what it to do on
here. You scroll down you see like how many who will join bunch of drop
downs and then I see the pricing plans a big gap scroll down. All right.
Are called actions are down so these are the things that you want me to
click to make it hard to get to. Yes.

\[00:22:49\] If you\'re if you\'re talking to somebody who\'s never used
a product before you\'re just asking a lot. They have to find that
called action the first page and to scroll down at the bottom and then
read which most people don\'t and then recognize select is the call to
action.

\[00:23:04\] So let\'s go here. Now one thing I noticed is like
obviously like before I\'m going to pay for a service like this I want
to see how does the directory sort of work. I actually feel like you\'re
treacheries basically going to be a search.

\[00:23:14\] This is not a typical like search interface with all these
sort of drop offs. I can eventually figure it out happen on there but
it\'s one of those things like it doesn\'t use a afford Insys and it\'s
one of those things where I like to talk to people all the time with the
people like I\'m going to build an interface then no one has ever seen
before because I want to make my mark on the world and users usually go
like I have no idea how the fuck to use this.

\[00:23:37\] Because I\'ve never seen anything like it. Laughter.

\[00:23:41\] If you want to be an artist you should be an artist. This
is a very different type of design.

\[00:23:46\] OK so let\'s go through here.

\[00:23:47\] I\'m just like I want to go through this as fast as
possible and give you my first. I do my first search. I get your results
is what you\'re going to get. That\'s like trying to set expectations.

\[00:24:02\] And then scroll down and you\'ve got this button. We have a
bunch of Spanish letters talking to me laughter were better and better.

\[00:24:11\] Right right.

\[00:24:12\] OK. Applause.

\[00:24:21\] So I finally find something it shows me a result. I go
great. I\'d go through this and I get hit this button. Problem is this
button actually takes you to the sign up page for registering as a
professional instead of the organization. So this will take you down a
really weird rabbit hole where you want to take them to somewhere else.
And I didn\'t realize I was going to go to that until I read their stuff
that\'s below the call of action. All right so this is the one that you
wanted to go through.

\[00:24:46\] I didn\'t actually end up going through this went to the
site on their watch. Now when we have dogs going to kill us. OK. Really
quick on here. There\'s a lot of stuff to go through the sign up on
here.

\[00:24:55\] You go through this. There\'s this action that happens.
This that explains it.

\[00:25:01\] Go through on here. It\'s all this information asked me as
a professional and quite frankly is one of those things where I\'m just
like like how much money have I managed. I\'m just like I want to
volunteer and help. Like why won\'t you let me help you get through
here. These are like kind of the main questions that you have that you
show up on the site. I see this thing on air. I don\'t see the word
volunteer which is why I think I am. It\'s not for volunteers. And
here\'s the thing.

\[00:25:27\] Laughter bucket laughter.

\[00:25:33\] I get to hear it as they tell me an elevator pitch. It
would be great if you give me example.

\[00:25:37\] So like I\'m like I mean just get through this right. I did
this. This is technically the ending of this. I\'m not sure what to do
next. Vengefully figure out that this is a link. Actually have actually
to go back to the stuff that I need to know.

\[00:25:52\] The only thing I care about all that information that you
collect on there is actually what information to the nonprofit actually
need.

\[00:25:58\] What\'s the minimum that they need to be convinced that
there\'s a professional or volunteer that\'s is who we are collected
here after talking with us for ways to capture that core information
that they look for when they scout for a professional indeed that\'s the
information that we capture in the first Creuzot. I\'ve looked through
some snapshots but I think it looks better if you look on the right.

\[00:26:18\] I think I would disagree.

\[00:26:20\] I mean I\'ll say look I think the big issue here isn\'t the
point that Kevin is trying to drive home by showing all these steps is
you\'re trying to tackle a lot as a very young company trying to tackle
a lot in terms of functionality and features and I think that\'s maybe
not the best strategy. Like you know Kevin said if I want to volunteer
not as an autism professional if I just want to submit a little piece of
information to get onto the site. There\'s so much I have to go over
that I probably will make it to the end. And that\'s a big problem for
you because that means a big party. You don\'t have a market you\'ll
have actually people who are in the directory.

\[00:26:56\] Twelve hundred people are 19 other people started 12 people
completed the profile and confirmed their e-mail so we have over a
hundred pets Gregory contacted now by over 12 0 so it\'s going to be
Yeah indeed. And it\'s addressing it is actually an issue that all these
organizations are struggling with. They\'re all managing this all by
themselves on an Excel sheet. So we say okay we\'ll just bring it online
on a platform.

\[00:27:20\] I totally get it at the whole thing is I\'m out of my
weekend were you in any way know. Like I actually would be like hey give
me your name give me your email address. And then like tell me like a
professional or you volunteer just like grab that and then you send them
all for the follow up information later on. Like I just be harvesting
names. The second thing is I want to make it so that like those people
are super impressed by the listening that it\'s happened there.

\[00:27:42\] So I wouldn\'t give take the chance that someone\'s going
to search your database which isn\'t fully completed whatever and be
like maybe there\'s gonna be something that could happen. Be like Look
do you need people like within a month you need people in this category.
We have this many in that category this morning and this this being this
if you\'re interested in try to give us contact or just make it so it\'s
just feel like I\'m already going to when just by looking at the
information they were now in the states and trying to work with these
dozen organizations to get their feedback and see how they want to use
this platform.

\[00:28:12\] There are more functionalities that are trying to define to
go to with them to see how we can optimize it for them. I guess it\'s an
ongoing process. Yeah you appreciate the feedback.

\[00:28:21\] Yeah just as it were. We\'re out of time. They\'re like
signaling like these and these maniacal signs and the backstage just
just a couple of couple of quick points before we wrap up. You know
we\'re showing you. Thank you for coming out and letting us work through
your site this is actually better than a lot of sites that are that are
that are a year old or six months old but it\'s used as an example. A
lot of founders are folks and all these things in their companies and
they don\'t recognize it so many people the first time they see your
company is going to be through this. And so it\'s very important to make
sure you as founders are showing your product to people who don\'t know
what the company is. Make sure they understand what the landing page is.
Make sure they can get through that sign up because that is you know for
every time that you tell somebody by your company there\'s a thousand
other people that are going to be hitting that Web site and maybe
getting an incorrect.

\[00:29:08\] And the stuff we do is not complicated. I just walk through
the site and just try to follow the path. And the thing is I try to
follow the path of what\'s the fastest way that I can get to what I want
or what I think you want from on there. And when you notice that like
it\'s super hard to get to that point it\'s like get to touch on a when.

\[00:29:23\] Well there was the lead you didn\'t show it but there\'s
the lead home page where you can just leave your e-mail and say you
register just e-mail or register and it totally being really obvious.

\[00:29:32\] But why not that be the site period. Home Page. There is
like this this this. Don\'t let the big companies have all this crud
that kind of builds up over time when something isn\'t working. Dump it
and replace it with some. That\'s the nice thing about having a small
company.

\[00:29:48\] We\'re way over time.

\[00:29:49\] Thank you think.

\[00:29:56\] He said everyone can register. I don\'t know what happened
to you.

\[00:30:02\] Okay last company power of you hi. Hi.

\[00:30:14\] We\'re not we\'re not going to listen to the laughter in
the comments and I was like oh God this is going to happen.

\[00:30:23\] All right. Introduce yourself and tell us what your company
does.

\[00:30:26\] Mine is case of money I\'m the co-founder of power of U. We
help people take control of their data. I can\'t see anybody over that
conversation with that. We help people take control of their data and
we\'re starting by monetizing the data through market research so
helping brands understand their consumers through actual behavior data
rather than the clean behavior data. We can\'t let you say when you say
you you mean a consumer.

\[00:30:47\] Correct. And then the brands are our supply side.

\[00:30:50\] So I think one of the questions was from a demand and so
actually demand becomes are brands and supply is the data from
consumers.

\[00:30:58\] So people like you and I and everybody here is like the
thing everyone\'s worried that Google is doing what they are doing it
not.

\[00:31:07\] But they don\'t sell like first person data or anything
like that.

\[00:31:10\] So they\'re not I guess that brings us to the first
question why would I want to do this. As a consumer.

\[00:31:15\] So it\'s already happening to your point earlier about
Google so it\'s not just I mean there\'s companies out there Facebook
Google and other companies actually all doing this for billions of
dollars that they\'re helping us get something back. I use e-mail. I
love it and we use it for free. And I want that only in here.

\[00:31:30\] I\'m just getting money.

\[00:31:32\] I said I get what. Why would you like me in return. What do
I get in return for you Monitise. So you do get paid money. How much
money. How much can I make. We are we\'re monetizing at 15 dollars sixty
five dollars per day to instance what if a date is then. So any time
your data is used for an inside for a brand 15 to 65.

\[00:31:52\] Yes. How is that about.

\[00:31:56\] That\'s how much I mean we\'re doing market research. The
average user that signs up for how much money they\'re making. They
would. Well this is so on average because it\'s not you only get paid if
your data is used Yep. So that\'s going to be about 35 dollars. If your
data is you know a year a day every time. So I mean we\'re still at we
just started monetizing six months ago. So it\'s early data points.

\[00:32:20\] What percentage of total users are actually getting paid.
And then how much have you paid out in the last six months.

\[00:32:26\] OK. So percentage wise it\'s going to be about a very small
percent about 8 percent people have already gotten paid. It\'s a matter
of consolidation of people of the brands and all that combination of
things and the amount that we distribute back is about 3000 dollars
already. So what your biggest problem right now our biggest one is
actually the sales cycle to brands that\'s our biggest challenge. So
what you\'re saying is it takes take anywhere from two months up to six
months. And sometimes that drops out of time. Do you have enough supply
to entice brands. That is something. Yes we do have enough supply in the
areas that we\'re targeting heavily so specificallyU.K. andU.S.

\[00:33:09\] So if I\'m whatever Pepsi and I come to power you I. How
much do I watch Leno pay. What\'s a normal contract look like.

\[00:33:18\] So it\'s normally if you come to me right. Yeah. So I would
love for Pepsi to come to me. So people are starting to come which is
awesome because they see the value of the data and the old laws and
regulations of the amount the base that we start off with is at fifteen
thousand dollars for a three week project where essentially the project
is you would be bringing people onboard and we have the people that you
are interested in 18 to 25 year olds in San Francisco watch. I think
that how many people do I get out of my list would be anywhere from
hundred to 200 people. That would be in this project. OK. So.

\[00:33:55\] You\'re worried about trying to build up your pipeline that
happens on that. So like how often are you closing in the business.

\[00:34:02\] So it\'s for I mean we have three clients right now that
we\'re working with already and we are definitely trying to bring in new
business. Well it\'s it\'s an ongoing process it takes a long to do it
but then we have these clients also renew on average how long does it
take. It\'s going to be at least six months. Great. And then how many
people do you have potentially in the pipeline that you\'re like. We
have about eight people in the pipeline right now eight people how many
people are emailing a day we\'re not. Probably I can tell you per week
we e-mail at least three people per week.

\[00:34:33\] That

\[00:34:33\] is this three a whole three people because the challenge
there is you want to take so you have to get to the right person and to
find out whether you\'re thinking where you\'re more specifically
identifying three decision makers Exactly.

\[00:34:48\] That\'s right. So I\'m going to just say I\'m going to
answer. You\'re going to blow your head like. You need to be contacting
like a hundred people a day. This is like the first thing that we start
telling me to be companies right away. And that is it\'s one of those
things like it takes six months. Right.

\[00:35:04\] And let\'s say for example like you\'re working on this
thing you\'re trying to hit kind of growth on there. That means like
everything that you do right now to get to that point like that helps
you like feed into what\'s going to happen into the future. Yes. And the
thing is like a lot of people just get stuck on saying like yes I need
multiple touch points but they keep overthinking what that touch point
is. Right. That means so for example bottom things like the only touch
points the habits like definitely a key decision maker. It has to
definitely be a meeting or whatever. But really like the first touch
should be like a simple email to as many people as possible. Whereas
just like hi I\'m one of the founders of this we\'re doing this we\'re
making this viable and what you\'re trying to find is low hanging fruit
right. Those people where it\'s just like they just get it they
understand it clicks and it happens on there.

\[00:35:46\] And only we\'re going to find low hanging fruit is that
you\'re doing this like shock on approach in sales like the best lead
Azalina hang hangs up on you because then you know you don\'t dedicating
more time to it.

\[00:35:57\] So at this phase of your company there isn\'t a lot of
value in being very precise to find the specific random specific
decision maker because you just want information from your customers
about do they actually want this. Both brands and consumers. Right.

\[00:36:12\] You want to be promiscuous at this stage. And the thing
it\'s like you don\'t it\'s like you\'re trying to predict like who I
think the key decision makers are which kind of company is going like
that. And it\'s really is one of the things like I see this kind of
company they like us I\'m going to find a thousand other companies that
Zach that I get like yeah you wait.

\[00:36:26\] I mean like like we might find that like hospitals or some
random group that you never even considered are actually the people who
are most responsive. And before you know those could be your first you
know 100 200 Tassi those are the real office hours.

\[00:36:40\] I\'d be like Alright three day or three a week or whatever
I think that\'s not enough. What I want to do is like basically find a
list of like top Fortune 5000 companies and figure out how to e-mail
like everyone that you think is in that position.

\[00:36:51\] There\'s also a sub point there which Kevin is making which
is the more the more companies are potential customers you e-mail the
more you\'re gonna have to go outside of your preconceived assumptions
of what is an ideal customer and just outside of your line of sight
might actually be the truth.

\[00:37:09\] And I think that there\'s many many examples of startups
which are very similar to huge companies but ultimately fail because
they just didn\'t they just didn\'t get that one iteration that\'s so
early on you you almost have to be very skeptical about your assumptions
about what your brand what these brands and these customers want. And
that\'s another reason why just doing high volume will you know we\'ll
get you like learnings in a year.

\[00:37:33\] And your task from there then is a lot of people said I\'m
B2B enterprise. What number should I be tracking because I\'m only going
to be closing maybe one or two deals over a year or whatever happens on
there. And this is like all the numbers you\'re tracking is all this
stuff about like how effective you\'re buying. I\'m contacting a hundred
people a day. This is my response rate. This is my open right. This is
my clickthrough rate. These people asked for a demo. This is how many
meetings I\'ve signed up. If you\'re going to compete against someone
who\'s got like a giant sales force then you don\'t compete with them by
going out one at a time. You have to start thinking. And the thing is
like there\'s tons of technology now available to people doing outbound
sales while than ever before we fund tons of those companies now because
we see that that\'s the future for how people are jumpstarting
businesses. Thank you.

\[00:38:13\] So you have you\'re you\'re. That\'s one problem. OK
that\'s what I was going to ask for another problem but that\'s I I a
problem we\'ll do quickly one more.

\[00:38:21\] What\'s another thing that your career goes on the other
side of the equation is communicating are what we\'re offering to
consumers to people better so that they don\'t freak out or they
understand what we\'re doing.

\[00:38:34\] It\'s think you\'re looking for people who are like I
don\'t care. You\'re right. So just let me know I would do a lot of
things for 65 dollars.

\[00:38:45\] I mean if you can if you you if you can you can pay me
sixty five bucks and I would just lead with that.

\[00:38:51\] It\'s like look you give the state it you can make between
this and this much money. And you don\'t think you have to do anything
just connect all your stuff that happens on there and it comes
passively. Exactly and that\'s the only story I need to tell is super
simple. The thing is like when I go to your website you do not make that
simple at all. You\'re like look at all these areas of like dimensions
and graphs. They don\'t care about these graphs.

\[00:39:10\] Sixty five dollars laughter. Got it. Yes. OK. All right.
We\'re out of time. Thank you so much.

\[00:39:17\] Thank you so much.

\[00:39:25\] OK. Real quick takeaways so marketplaces identify supply
identified demand see how the rate of growth is. Try to figure out where
you\'re sort of constrained if you do not need to be staff work in mass
to work aggressively outside of you.

\[00:39:39\] And just try not to be too Coughenour assumptions. One
thing that you guys have seen these are these three very different
companies similar with different companies is Kevin just focused on what
are the. As we said at the beginning what are the bottlenecks to growth
and really focusing on those. As a founder there\'s a limitless amount
of problems that you have to deal with. You have to work on. I implore
you and we implore you to think that we work on most of why seeing the
programs focusing on those things which are bottlenecks to growth and
because it\'s a night it\'s a nice true north. When you wake up in the
morning you know what you gotta work on rather than have this company
and all these different problems after you don\'t just focus on one
thing. But anyways that\'s something I think you applaud.
