**Q&A with YC Partners at Startup School SV 2016-bpJQN2WyD8g.mp4**

\[00:00:01\] I\'m cat one of the partners at Y C and I\'m gonna bring on
a bunch of the partners with me today to help answer some of the
questions that you sent us. Thanks for sending all the questions.

\[00:00:11\] Let\'s bring everyone out.

\[00:00:22\] All right. Let\'s have everyone introduce themselves really
quick so let\'s go down the line. Start with Dora Amador.

\[00:00:35\] Michael Dalton on Casti.

\[00:00:38\] And so we just took all of your questions and are going to
probably get through hopefully about 10. And then if there\'s any that
we can\'t get you today we\'ll try to answer them online for you. But
let\'s start with if you know you want to eventually start a startup.
When should you do it. What\'s the best timing and how do you navigate
the tradeoff between becoming a domain expert and just doing it now.

\[00:01:05\] If you want to start and you have an idea you think you
should just start now instead of trying to figure out the tradeoffs. I
think when you start and even if you\'re not an expert you should be on
your way to becoming the domain expert and you can do a lot by you know
going in the field and doing the actual job itself or whatever research
you need to do to make yourself a domain expert. But you know one or two
years time you better be the domain expert in that field.

\[00:01:31\] Yeah I\'d add to that if you don\'t have an idea. I thought
Mark Andriessen advice was really good. Go join a hot startup for a
couple of years. Get an idea of what a a well run startup looks like. So
when you do have your idea you\'re kind of ahead of the game.

\[00:01:48\] Right.

\[00:01:49\] So what\'s a good process for discovering and vetting new
ideas that might be worth building.

\[00:01:59\] I always tell founders two things one look in their lives
and look in the lives of their family and their community and their work
and find problems that interests them. And the thing I say is think
about what you want. The first line of your Wikipedia article to be
because you know every startup has the potential to be your life\'s
work. So you don\'t think about warm up startups. Think about going out
and doing your life\'s work solving a problem in the world you care
about.

\[00:02:33\] Yeah I think applause.

\[00:02:38\] Sometimes people come up with ideas that seem impressive to
other people. You want to tell us more about your startup idea. You try
really hard to make it sound fancy and to use buzzwords. And I think a
better way to do that instead of that is to find something that you\'re
deeply passionate about and you can\'t stop thinking about. And it may
not it may not actually sound impressive to anyone. Right. There\'s a
good chance that when you try to tell people about the thing you\'re
actually excited about it sounds stupid and they laugh at you and say
it\'s a bad idea. If your only criteria is what impresses other people
or it impresses authority figures. That\'s you know you can you can go
way off track following that criteria.

\[00:03:19\] So the Segway is to another question that came up which is
like how do you choose between an idea that you loved your super
passionate about but it might be impossible to monetize. How do you
choose between that and a product that has like great revenue potential.

\[00:03:36\] How do you know that it should work for what I see.

\[00:03:39\] We\'ve waiting would love to know that.

\[00:03:43\] So one of the things that wifie has emphasized over and
over again is how hard it is to be a solo founder. So there\'s a
question you know do you have any advice for solo founders or how did
you Shamma for example convince wifie to accept Gobert with what was it
in her application that convinced you.

\[00:04:06\] I think all things equal it\'s better to have a co-founder
but frankly you know why see we\'ve accepted many companies with so the
founders and I think then you don\'t have to you know uses that come
with us with something that\'s very unique to you. So I\'m not sure
exactly what from a head injury application but if you have traction if
you have some really unique insights when are you going to quah users
retain users.

\[00:04:29\] All these things and you just know your shit and you come
across as very competent more than competent.

\[00:04:36\] Then we would definitely like to talk to you.

\[00:04:39\] And I think the other thing to bear in mind is that startup
Sahar to the two founders for three founders for everybody and so coming
in as a single single founder. You have to be pretty much superhuman
because you have to do everything you know you either are out selling or
you\'re out building the product or you\'re out fundraising. So you have
to be able to combine all of those things. Whereas if you have a
co-founder and one of his greatest sell at sales one of these very
technical. There\'s more of an obvious split there. So you know there is
definitely a superhuman element to being a single founder.

\[00:05:17\] Yeah I\'d also add to that that starting a company is an
emotional rollercoaster and it\'s really hard to do by yourself. It\'s
always nice when there\'s someone else next to you that feels the same
pain right that you can commiserate with because it takes that to kind
of get through some pretty tough times. If you\'re in a room alone kind
of kind of absorbing all the pain yourself. It can be overwhelming
sometimes.

\[00:05:43\] Specifically I remember when I came through wifie and when
she\'d applied and I remember we just said they\'re out. All of us had
like Richmond never gives up like Jewish men will never give up. Marvel
will keep on fighting until this works. And I think we\'d see and you
know she\'d already been working on gobble for a number of years before
she applied and it was clear that this was something that she was very
passionate about and that she was just going to keep working on it like
the story was similar to you know you have to be a cockroach reminded a
lot of people think of how the urban bees almost failed three times
before they actually got things up and running. So one question maybe
for you Kirstie is what are some tools or services that you would
recommend for founders who are just starting.

\[00:06:32\] Yeah there\'s loads of things out there to help and so as
some background I work on more of the financial and operational side
with startups and so I often get asked this question. There\'s so much
out there that can help with that. So from right from the very start
when you\'re incorporating your your company the services like Klefki
that can help you do that. That creates very standard paperwork that all
the Y see startups use. There are services like gusto that you can use
to help you run payroll properly and make sure that your withholding and
paying taxes over the services like ironclad which is which helps you
store all your NDA and sales contracts all in the same place. So
there\'s loads of resources out there to help you and I think it\'s
really important that those are the things that you shouldn\'t be trying
to reinvent the wheel you know use all your brain power to figure out
your product and to figure out how you\'re going to make your company
grow with all of these other things. That\'s not going to make your
company a success. So just do the basic simple vanilla option and move
on to other things.

\[00:07:37\] So on that note is there anything that you find really
early stage founders. We think a lot of time on that you wish they would
just like automate and move on or just are there are there any specific
things that you wish founders would spend less time on early on.

\[00:07:52\] So for me it\'s things like they try to come up with funky
voting structures or weird vesting schedules or they\'re trying to
protect themselves from some unknown company that\'s going to come in
and steal all their ideas and you know those kind of things you just
don\'t need to worry about. In the early days just keep it all simple
and concentrate on everything else because as you start to grow if other
things come up and you need to be fixed you can afford to pay lawyers at
that point and they can help you fix them.

\[00:08:28\] I\'d add to that being secretive and trying to protect your
idea. Sometimes I meet founders who think they have this secret idea and
the idea super valuable and they tell anyone they\'ll create 100
copycats and in fact the more common problem as a startup is that
you\'ll tell your idea to 100 people and all of them will kind of shrug
their shoulders whatever.

\[00:08:48\] And so as as a startup in most cases you should in most
cases you should be like telling your idea to literally anyone who will
sit and listen because they might have some valuable piece of feedback.

\[00:08:59\] Do you have thoughts on how people should think about
competition beyond that I think you should be highly aware of it and
what they\'re doing and sometimes they are doing some things right.

\[00:09:11\] And when they are failing you shouldn\'t assume you know
that they\'re incompetent. They\'re probably really smart people. In
fact they can with the same ideas you did.

\[00:09:20\] So you know I think again just be aware of what they\'re
doing track what they\'re doing but don\'t follow them and don\'t assume
that when they do something wrong that that\'s a bad idea. You know
there\'s a lot that goes into execution and and sometimes you know a
good idea is just badly executed and to just follow but don\'t copy
necessarily.

\[00:09:45\] So is it more important to move fast.

\[00:09:49\] Art Perfecta made about facts so I\'ll take a crack at
that.

\[00:10:02\] Sometimes when we do office hours founders ask us these
binary questions like you know should we grow really fast or should we
make a lot of money or why should I hire 100 people or should you know.
And the point is they want us to give them an answer. It\'s like this
binary thing. And what\'s so frustrating is ninety nine point nine
percent in time when we\'re in office hours and founders are pushing us
for a binary answer. The answer is like well you know both you know
people say What should I be focusing on the product growing faster.
It\'s like Well both. That\'s. And unfortunately that is how most of
life is a lot of gray area and you\'re going to have to you\'re going to
have to do the impossible. And so that particular question we\'re all
chuckling because we\'re used to hearing that sort of thing. And
whenever we hear that it\'s someone kind of asking for permission to not
work on the thing they don\'t want to work on an end unless you know
unless I\'m really feeling sorry for them. Usually I don\'t give them
permission to. No. No. Oh don\'t work don\'t work on the product. Who
cares if your product is good just keep rolling. You know I think
that\'s what they want to hear. And so if you find yourself these kinds
of dichotomies right if you\'re like should I be working on revenue or
should I be doing what I\'m passionate about. You know if you if you\'re
trapped in these sorts of chains of thought I think it\'s always good to
try to zoom out and realize that life is not black and white and these
are not usually Zero-Sum decisions and that if you get to the root of
what you\'re concerned about or where you\'re trying to solve for and
realize that you kind of you always have to do both.

\[00:11:37\] Let me add one thing. If you have a retention problem with
your product. If only 10 percent of your people are returning on a
monthly basis don\'t spend a lot of time on PR. Right. So don\'t try to
grow super fast. If people aren\'t sticking around. Focus on focus on
the product but focus on your real problem which is retention before you
go try to tell the world what there is. Similarly the one one rule I.

\[00:12:05\] Tell a lot of people is that everyone wants to know should
I keep growing fast. Or should I work on the product and make it really
good. I think you know in the early days acquiring users is shows that
this is something people want you should continue to do that but you
should always have this metric where it\'s like a threshold. Usually
something like retention or it\'s MPAC or something and continue growing
fast.

\[00:12:28\] But once it gets below a certain point like stop and really
focus on the product and why people are not retaining why the MPAC is so
low and don\'t even focus on growth at all.

\[00:12:40\] So for a startup that\'s recently launched what would you
consider a good growth rate.

\[00:12:49\] When I talk to startups and try to give them a rule of
thumb around growth would I try to tell them is like what I look for
when I read a wide application and basically what I look for is how long
have you been working on this project and am I impressed with what
you\'ve done. And so the growth rate is very very dependent on a
business and different businesses have very different growth rates. I
still think a better way of thinking about it is that like if you had to
be super intellectually honest with yourself about how fast you\'re
moving and how much progress you\'re getting in the amount of time that
you\'ve had to work on this compared to other people. That\'s a good way
to kind of start figuring out oh my impressive what I\'m doing is
impressive.

\[00:13:34\] And I think that like having US reduced that to like 7
percent or 15 percent is like not really going to be that helpful for
you.

\[00:13:42\] So this might be a good segue way to the question like What
do you look for when you\'re reading a wiki application. And another
question that came up was what do you look for when you\'re interviewing
with companies.

\[00:13:58\] In reading the applications I look for. Do they have unique
insight on how they\'re going to acquire customers. And there are many
factors but that\'s the one thing I look for in in terms of interview
it\'s how can they communicate their ideas in a very brief manner such
they understand it.

\[00:14:17\] If the entire 10 minutes of the interview trying to tell us
what you do that\'s really a bad sign that you don\'t really understand
the product quite yet.

\[00:14:27\] Yeah I think my biggest thing when reading an application
or evaluating a founder is to be biased towards people that are action
oriented and actually do stuff a very large percentage of people that
have startups haven\'t done anything. They haven\'t made a thing they
haven\'t given the thing to other people and their application is
basically asking for permission from us as authority figures to let them
work on their startup so they can quit their job or whatever. And on the
other hand you have folks like when we talked about earlier that hey
I\'ve shipped the service I\'ve given it to real people here\'s what we
figured out. Here\'s our Web site. You can click on it. We have
customers and the more someone the more there\'s evidence that someone
is action oriented as opposed to conceptual in their approach to
startups that is highly correlated with success across the board. And so
that be my advice to everyone on this like how we think about what YRC
looks out I mean if you have evidence that you made a thing and given
the thing to people and gotten money for the thing that you made that
makes your application 10x better than spending more time. You know
rewriting your prose to seem a little fancy or something. There\'s all
these things people spend a lot of time on their application and actual
evidence of action is infinitely better than you know getting better
camera angles or something in your video whatever to guys even cam video
you know there\'s a lot of people have all these tricks they try to do
and those are much easier to do your startup and make progress on it.
That would be my suggestion.

\[00:15:54\] I think the other thing that people often ask about this is
that they think we have kind of a checklist that says Oh if they have 10
percent growth and they have revenue and they have less than great
they\'re in. And that\'s that\'s not how it works best. It\'s a balance
of a number of different things like a number of different things that
we\'re looking for. And so it\'s very difficult to say you know this is
this is what makes a successful application in terms of concrete things
it\'s much more about can you concisely explain your idea. Can you can
we get to the end of the application and we actually understand what the
company is doing which you\'d be surprised at how many applications we
don\'t. And so it\'s it\'s much softer things than just being able to
say yes I\'ve achieved this specific thing.

\[00:16:39\] For me what\'s helpful is if you don\'t bury the lead you
know we\'re humans and we have to read literally hundreds of
applications. So why don\'t we for the last question the application to
say and we have 150000 users. We\'re making 2 million dollars in revenue
per month and growing 50 percent month over month. Like the lets you can
knock that up probably into the like what does my company do it does
this.

\[00:17:09\] And then I think the second thing is that I think a lot of
these things actually surface filters like what I would say is that you
should apply the only way you know you\'re going to get into ISY is if
you apply and it doesn\'t cost anything and it\'s open and it\'s pretty
easy.

\[00:17:25\] I

\[00:17:25\] would say like the software is good so just apply it like
the number of founders who tell us that even in the not getting in
answering those questions helps them build their business is so high. So
you should never hear any of these answers and say oh that means that I
shouldn\'t replied Oh.

\[00:17:42\] Even if you think you\'re a single non-technical co-founder
with a horrible idea and you haven\'t quit your job apply and roll the
dice you know you don\'t need to know.

\[00:17:51\] You don\'t need an intro you don\'t need a warm intro just
to play on our website there\'s a link. The vast vast vast majority of
the state often ahead of people we have no contact with whatsoever.

\[00:18:03\] Yeah 40 percent. I know it started to happen didn\'t laugh
but had never had a single touch point with wifie like they haven\'t
come to any events they\'ve never exchanged e-mail with a partner or an
alumni. It\'s kind of cool. I mean it\'s unlike other beefy funding type
situations where you need the worm and you have the ability to just
apply and it\'s and it\'s free and it\'s open to anyone.

\[00:18:25\] The thing that I think a lot of us tell a lot of people who
are thinking about applying is that the application is very simple.

\[00:18:32\] The questions are very simple and it\'s actually a really
good way to think about your business. It\'s a good framework and so
even if even if you don\'t I mean just just fill up the questions and I
think you\'ll actually help you think about your private in business
better.

\[00:18:48\] So a question that always comes up and that came up today
is at what point should a company apply is there like an optimal time in
the life cycle of a company.

\[00:18:58\] Keep on applying.

\[00:19:00\] I think I think there\'s two things here. I think people
people use this as an excuse to not apply because their company is too
early or their company is too late. They\'re like oh I can\'t possibly
apply to Y Combinator and that\'s not true. There is no too early and
there is now too late. We can be helpful to companies at all different
stages. And you know this also comes back to should you polish your
products a little bit more. It doesn\'t matter. You know we can we can
help you at any stage. And the other thing to bear in mind is if you do
apply and you\'re not successful first time round then no problem you
know apply again. There\'s no there\'s no black marks against you for
doing that. There\'s no problems with that. So just even if you\'re a
little bit early to the first time six months or more working on the
company could totally change things.

\[00:19:50\] Just to put facts on that in the last batch of 100
companies. There was a company that literally didn\'t or multiple
companies didn\'t start writing code until 2 for their application was
submitted. There was a company that had a 40 million dollar revenue run
rate and there and everyone in between.

\[00:20:08\] And they all got tons of a lot of. So everyone is probably
somewhere between those two points.

\[00:20:15\] And to add to that question out of the 100 companies in the
last batch of Poissy about 50 of them had previously applied and been
rejected and they were being accepted on their second third fourth
application so a play by choice.

\[00:20:34\] It was I was on a panel with a bunch of alumni and the
question came up from the audience and literally everyone all the alumni
on the panel had applied more than once.

\[00:20:43\] I put four times with three times and I was like whoa.
Interesting.

\[00:20:48\] And so you know getting to the last few minutes. So I kind
of wanted to go down the line and ask Is there anything you wish you\'d
known when you first got. We\'re getting started.

\[00:21:01\] Any particularly helpful advice that you got or would like
to pass on someone can volunteer.

\[00:21:11\] Sure I\'ll start. I wish someone had told me it was as
rewarding as it ended up being right. I just kind of did it because it
sounded like it was interesting and I was passionate about the idea. But
looking back on having started several companies it is unbelievably
rewarding because it\'s so hard to get through it and be successful at
it. On money many different levels. You know just look back at some of
the best experiences of my life.

\[00:21:48\] I wish it someone told me. To let go of let go of.

\[00:22:02\] Being in the nitty gritty so much because when you\'re
starting to essentially like for myself I went through for like three or
four years of just nothingness.

\[00:22:09\] And so I was always the one coding and building the
product. And then as my companies start scaling up fast I didn\'t let go
that stuff fast enough. So I think there\'s a lot to learn in terms of
scaling a company and when you should know what you should be managing
and what your priorities should be.

\[00:22:25\] And yeah I wish I learned that faster I wish I had asked
for more help when I started my first company I was 21 and I dropped out
of college to do it and I\'d never actually had like a real job before.
So I only had this sort of like dim understanding of how companies
actually worked on the inside gleaned maybe from TV shows.

\[00:22:49\] And all of a sudden I was managing like 30 people and I had
no idea how to do it. And I actually felt like very isolated and alone
and I didn\'t know who to ask for for help. And I\'ve learned since then
that particularly in Silicon Valley people are incredibly willing to
help even if there\'s like no even if there isn\'t anything apparently
in it for them they\'ll just help you just because. And so I really wish
I just ask. Like lots of people for help. Best piece of advice I got was
actually this guy named Gideon you yelling at us and telling us that we
were stupid.

\[00:23:30\] We had got just on TV profitable and we are actually making
a couple million dollars a month. I mean a year sorry in profit and we
were kind of sitting back and patent ourselves on the back and Gideon
said you\'ve built something that\'s useless it will fade from the
Internet in the next three years and nothing you\'ve done will ever be
known ever again. And after we finally picked up our egos we started
thinking about new things to build and a couple of them worked out. So
yeah probably the best piece of I say God like to don\'t rest on our
laurels.

\[00:24:10\] Yeah I think my piece of advice is just to watch out for
cargo cult in on a lot of the aspects of startup culture that you may or
may not agree with. I think a lot of people have all these ideas about
how they\'re supposed to act or they\'re supposed to go to meet up.
You\'re supposed to go to this and you\'re supposed to hang out. You\'re
supposed to network and you don\'t have to do any of that stuff like
that\'s totally not. If anything that can be a signal of being
distracted from your startup and instead I would suggest the way to
think about this is in most jobs in life you have to conform to someone
else\'s culture or someone else\'s company. You getting control every
aspect of things if you\'re designing your own job. You get to choose
who you work with. You get to choose what your work styles like you get
to choose your hours. You get to choose what you\'re actually even
working on. And so you should open your mind to create an entire reality
that really serves your needs and your passions of what makes you happy
and not this cargo cult idea of like Hey I read on this blog post that
all 14 of the most successful founders all you know went to Stanford or
whatever that thing is just write your own damn story right.

\[00:25:20\] Like stop reading all these blog posts about how to be like
famous people and like do it your own way.

\[00:25:25\] And I just that\'s really my incursion when I talk to
people that are that are sometimes get lost in reading too much advice
to remember that this is your story and you\'re gonna do it your own
wayvs. just like Apin whatever you\'ve read. You know in the popular
press. So that\'s my advice to you.

\[00:25:49\] Although I think my advice is that you know when you hear
about people talking about startups all the time they\'re always killing
it. They\'re always growing they\'re always hiring people and that\'s
actually not reality. And so I think you know finding yourself some some
trusted people that you can go to and say things aren\'t going so well.
I\'m finding this a little bit tough or you know things things aren\'t
quite working how I want them to work. All right you don\'t have to
broadcast that to the entire world but if you have if you have a few
people that you can actually talk to about that whether it\'s other
founders or whether it\'s a couple of your investors or whoever it might
be that can actually really help to take a load off so that you can feel
like you\'re not constantly acting and you\'re not constantly having to
be there. I\'m the startup founder who where everything\'s going
fantastically well for thank you. All of us.

\[00:26:45\] Are going to be out in the sunken garden for the reception.
So if you have any particular questions for us you can come up and just
ask us in person. And so I wanted to take this opportunity to give a
couple things out. I wanted to thank all the people that were involved
with making this happen all the partners all the staff. A huge thank you
to Dominique who runs events for Y C and Tom who got the Wi-Fi working
and Gerard who bailed out of the software for us said. And Steven and
everyone else. And also thank you to all of you for coming. It\'s a huge
pleasure to get to meet you and get to get to hear what you guys are
working on. A big thank you to the startups who came up here and did
office hours today and pitch practice. It takes takes them like a lot of
grit. You know they were all really great sports and so there is a
reception right outside till 7:00 at the sunken garden and we will see
you there. All right thank you.
