**Ben Silbermann at Startup School SV 2016-LzhXIBPYyxw.mp4**

\[00:00:07\] Good morning. Nice to see everyone here.

\[00:00:12\] My name is Ali Rughani. I\'m a partner at Y Combinator. I
run our late stage fund. It\'s called The Combinator Continuity fund and
I am I couldn\'t be happier to be here today to conduct a fireside chat
with Ben Silbermann.

\[00:00:31\] Who is you guys all probably know is the co-founder and CEO
of Pinterest.

\[00:00:39\] Ben has a fascinating background and a set of diverse
experiences of entrepreneurship.

\[00:00:46\] So we\'re thrilled to have him here.

\[00:00:48\] And I want to welcome him here today.

\[00:01:02\] Ben thank you for coming. Thanks for having me. Well there
are a lot of bright a lot of people in this very bright light smokes.

\[00:01:10\] Ben let me just start first by asking you to tell us a
little bit about Ben before Pinterest sort of what you were interested
in growing up through college and what you graduated college and then
went and did. How that kind of all led to today.

\[00:01:25\] Sure. Well I grew up in Iowa I grew up outside its Moine
and a lot of a lot of time when I grew up I I thought I was going to be
a doctor. Both my parents are doctors. Both my sisters are doctors and
so it didn\'t even feel like really a choice. But as a kid I loved all
kinds of things. You know I love nature. I loved I love stories I love.
I love fiction and I love movies. And then when I went to school I went
to I went to Yale and I was premed but I didn\'t really have a specific
plan other than maybe I should be a doctor. So that was sort of my my
first chapter. And then somewhere along along that line I thought geez I
don\'t know if medicine is for me. And I feel like medicine is one of
those professions where if you think that you actually know that. And so
I just you know I started I start taking other classes I ended up I
ended up getting a major in Political Science. But the other thing that
happened was college was the first time that I had like my own laptop
with high speed internet which makes me sound super old. Things change
fast. But I remember actually that being a really transformative
experience just be able to get on get access to all kinds of information
I just became it sounds really corny I just kind of fell in love with
the internet. I loved the idea that everyone could access the same
information no matter where you were in the world. And I would always
play these kind of what if games like whenever I saw a problem I mean
like like you know what if what if the Internet could help solve this
problem. So I think that\'s that\'s how I really get excited about
technology. So you didn\'t drop out.

\[00:03:03\] You got your degree. You graduated and then you took. You
didn\'t start a company right away. Is that right.

\[00:03:08\] No. You know I decided not to be a doctor. My parents were
like Okay hope better figure you got something to do to make money. And
I took a job at a consulting firm. And I took that job mainly because
they they offered it to me. And I went to WashingtonD.C. and I worked in
consulting and worked inI.T. group. And then along the way I was kind of
working with friends and building these toys on the Internet. And I say
toys because they weren\'t they weren\'t really intended to be these
serious businesses or anything I was just really curious about what we
could do. So I\'m one of the first things that I had started making in
college. It was it was a tool that that let you try on glasses online
because you know my parents I spent a lot of time there opthamologist
and they had an optical shop attached and you know people were there
because they couldn\'t see and so I would I would watch all these people
go in and try all these Blancs glasses and then they try to look in the
mirror but they couldn\'t see them. They\'d ask how do these look. And I
was thinking oh you know maybe maybe we could build software to help
people see that maybe they could do it online. So instead of having like
12 pairs of glasses that were available you could have the whole access
that was an example of kind of one of these toys. I worked with a friend
of mine named Altay and we made a tool to help his band promote
themselves all over the country all on the side while you had a day job.
All projects. Yeah. So yeah that\'s how he kind of got started more and
more playing with things than just focusing on building a serious
company.

\[00:04:40\] Now you\'re clearly creative you clearly had a sense of
like the Internet could be something interesting that solves his
problems but you weren\'t technical so how did you like overcome that in
the early days in terms of actually be able to kind of create the things
you wanted to create.

\[00:04:53\] Yeah well you know how it always I would always start off
thinking about an idea and I had some friends that were technical and
then none of us were super technical so we\'d always just sort of chip
in and learn what we needed to do to get the next part. So learning
about things like product design. Would you like simple like front end
coding and just you end up learning like little bits at a time. And for
me at least it\'s a lot easier to learn things when there\'s something
that you want to build than doing it in a very abstract kind of
classroom way.

\[00:05:20\] Got it. When did you or how did you decide OK I\'m going to
now leave my job and jump out and commit fully to starting a company.

\[00:05:33\] You know it is a while. So when I was inD.C. I was like
always reading these blogs. I was like I\'m here typing in Tech Crunch.
I was like whoa like something is going on on the Internet. And I just
really wanted to be part of it so I didn\'t feel like I could start a
company. But I thought maybe a good half step would be to try to work at
a company that I really respect. And so I really wanted to work at
Google. So I moved out to California and I got a job of Google. And the
only job I was qualified for at the time was online sales and operations
which was kind of like customer support. And I worked there for about a
year and a half and all the while I\'m like oh Chinese civil projects on
the side and it was actually my my girlfriend at the time who is now my
wife. She was one of a kind of gave me the kick in the pants you know
like normal I was like oh wouldn\'t it be cool I should build this. Like
here\'s what it\'s going to look like. Here\'s the early prototype.
She\'s like You know Ben maybe you should either do it or stop talking
about it.

\[00:06:29\] That turned out to be really good advice.

\[00:06:32\] So you left Google. What was the first thing you tried to
build.

\[00:06:36\] Well immediately when I left I hooked up with some friends
of mine and I was still interested in medicine latent interest in
medicine so we wanted to build a tool that would help people gather your
medical records across your family you could kind of build a family tree
and everyone could update it. And I started with these friends that were
kind of on a break period before they got theirPh.D. but in a few months
then they got therapy you know like hey you know like we aPh.D. we\'re
going to be professors and you\'re sort of on your own. And then you
know I was kind of like in the void. It wasn\'t the team sort of fell
apart. Yeah. Like one guy went on to become an extraordinarily
successful researcher out of them. Another guy went to medical school.
And so was sort of wandering around it wasn\'t even the trough of
despair. It\'s like not doing not doing that much. But I hooked up with
a friend of mine from college and at that time the iPhone had just
recently come out and actually I remember so vividly like watching that
keynote on this laptop and be like holy holy cow this change everything.
They hooked up with a friend to build products for the iPhone. And one
of those products our idea was like why don\'t we take all those
catalogs in your mailbox and put them on the phone because catalogs suck
and phones are great but you still want to shop.

\[00:07:48\] And that was our first our first idea that we really formed
into that company and that was yeah the product was called toat. And we
knew that to build that we would have to raise a little bit of money.

\[00:07:59\] We set out to raise money on that premise and that was the
first time you\'d raise money for two.

\[00:08:05\] It was the first time that I\'d been in charge of raising
the money and done it really formally and it was a total shit show to be
honest. You know the other part of this was this is this is 2008. So the
economy has collapsed and we would just like go to these meetings and
and these folks would just be like Why are you even here.

\[00:08:25\] And I\'m like I don\'t know you took the meeting like I was
like Why am I here. Laughter.

\[00:08:32\] But it was really it was a really tough time and so you
know we went through the full like West Coast investors. We went to the
east coast struck out on the West Coast struck out on the west coast not
for lack of effort.

\[00:08:41\] I

\[00:08:41\] think that everyone who could have gotten call got a call
we would cold call people out of alumni directories like whether we went
to the school or not like Slick\'s like a wealthy a wealthy individual.

\[00:08:54\] Laughter.

\[00:08:55\] And we ended up doing something quite desperate which is I
ended up finding all the college business plan competitions that had
loosely written rules about attendance in that school.

\[00:09:06\] And I entered one and we got second place in the prize for
second place was a meeting with a venture capitalist who was an alumni
of the school and they were able to give us our first couple hundred
thousand dollars which to me felt like all the money in the world. I
couldn\'t believe it. It was like I was looking at the bank account. And
that\'s how we got it started.

\[00:09:26\] Amazing. And there were two of you at the time. Yep. So
what do you do with money. Did you go out and hire some people. We did.
We paid the awesome engineers they were helping us out.

\[00:09:36\] And we set out to build this. This iPhone app. But at the
time iPhone development was really slow. Not only was it slow to develop
it was also slow to get approved. And so even after we built this app
and we were we were ready I thought I was going to be like in the movie.
Like you push like release and then like all these things we couldn\'t
even get the thing approved. And so at the same time you know I met
another friend in New York named Evan and we had this other idea that
was again it was kind of like one of these toys.

\[00:10:04\] Looking back there were elements of all these other
projects we\'d worked on but it was this toy in the toy was like you
know what if there was a tool to let you collect things online. You had
some of these elements of this catalog on the phone. I mean had some
things that I just loved as a kid I was a big collector as a kid. Evan
was too. And we started to build build this toy. And ironically like
that toy is what would would later become the whole company.

\[00:10:28\] Right.

\[00:10:29\] So that so then sort of morphed into Pinterest Yeah I mean
the thing morphed as a generous word to launched and no one really used
it and then and then Pinterest was kind of it was it was getting done.
We thought it was really cool. And so we thought Hey let let\'s put this
thing out into the world. And that was sort of how this switchover
happened.

\[00:10:48\] So when you reflect back and think about the early days of
Pinterest what was the problem that you\'re trying to sort out there who
are you trying to.

\[00:10:57\] Was it something you\'re building at the time for a narrow
group of people or for everyone. What was that thing that you were
trying to solve.

\[00:11:04\] Well gonna sound like kind of the worst business person. We
just thought it would be cool for ourselves at first. You know I am a
really curious person Evan. He was an architect at the time you starting
in architecture school in Columbia like buildings not computers. And we
thought he had this tool took to collect things for yourself that would
be really useful and not only that in those collections can kind of give
you a window into how other people saw the world. We just thought that
would be that would be really a really fun product that people might be
interested in. And so I think what initially motivated us that early
team was we really enjoyed using the product for ourselves. And when we
released it it actually was not a runaway success. It grew really really
slowly but part of what kept us going is we thought it was a really cool
a really cool product that we enjoyed. We thought well maybe there are
people like us who would also enjoy it.

\[00:11:54\] Yeah.

\[00:11:56\] How did you find your first users. How did you know you\'ve
talked a little about like trying to market it and being scrappy about
that. Can you talk about that.

\[00:12:05\] Yeah so we released it and I did probably what everyone
does. The first thing you do is you e-mail all your friends and you kind
of hope they can and no one really got it to be totally honest with you.
Neither are the people on the East Coast that avenue nor the people on
the west coast. They just didn\'t really get it. They were really
polite.

\[00:12:23\] They were like oh looks interesting very interesting.

\[00:12:29\] But there was a small group of people that were enjoying it
and those folks were not who who I think typically you think about early
adopters. They were there were folks that I grew up with people that
were using it for regular stuff in their life. What was my house can
look like. You know what kind of food do I want to eat. Things like that
and we really thought you know where those people congregated. Who\'s
their community. And I ended up you know going to a conference where a
lot of the blogs that people were reading about those things a lot of
those bloggers gathered and I met and I met these bloggers and they seem
like the kind of people who would really enjoy it. So he organized a
marketing event with those bloggers where we had each of them introduced
the service to their audience.

\[00:13:11\] I mean how many users do you have at this point.

\[00:13:13\] How small is Pinterest is like few hundred 100 so very
early if you ask pretty early on. And that\'s how we got started. But in
between I mean we did all kinds of honestly pretty desperate things like
I used to walk home and I was in Palo Alto and I\'d walk by the Apple
store and I would like stand an Apple store and just like change all the
computers to say Pinterest and I\'m like kind of stand in the back like
what is Pinterest thing.

\[00:13:41\] Blowing But you know slowly we started we started to get
folks who really love this service.

\[00:13:54\] And then since it took us so long to get those users we
cared about them so much. I used to have my cell phone on all the
customer support e-mails I would take customer support calls all the
time. So when the service would go down I had this problem where
everyone would start calling me be like hey can\'t get my pins. And I
don\'t know I think that for me there were these two lessons and in one
it\'s that you know there\'s a stereotype of where early adopters come
from and they should be these technology forward folks and I just think
that that idea is really outdated now. I think that so many people have
these amazing computers in their pocket. So many people are of it that
early adopters are coming from everywhere and it could be taxi cab
drivers in India more Midwestern folks were planning their home. And I
think if we been really dogmatic about wanting kind of cool Silicon
Valley people to like it we probably wouldn\'t have made the service
that we made. I mean I think there was a lesson in really taking care of
users. And so all the time. You know I would sit in coffee shops and ask
people to try this service and just try to wash them and see what they
were doing to see where we could smooth out the edges and improve the
service.

\[00:15:02\] And what did you do would you ask for user ideas on user
feedback and would that inform what you were building. Or was it more
the case that you would observe and continue to build something that
felt good for you.

\[00:15:14\] It was a little bit of both.

\[00:15:16\] You know one one thing is that what people say they want in
what people mean can sometimes be different. So really common thing that
I would ask people sitting in a coffee shop I\'d be like hey you know
what. Why don\'t you try to create a board or try to find something. And
then I would ask them to do it or I\'d ask them to look at it button
push it. And right before I\'d say you know what do you expect to see on
the other side of that. And then right after I like is that what you
saw. And if it was different I\'d be like they should we should fix that
up. And so I do think that listening to the people that use the service
is incredibly important. But you have to use judgment to decide what
parts of the product you really want to invest in.

\[00:15:55\] And you still do that today. I mean Pinterest now has
millions and millions of users. How do you still carry that forward in
terms of caring for users and you personally kind of observing or
getting feedback from them.

\[00:16:06\] Yeah I mean when when we started growing and we realized
there are users that we couldn\'t fully understand the first person
perspective because maybe they were in a different country or they were
on a different infrastructure. We started to build out a research team
and today we have researchers that go around the world and bring people
into the office to do that kind of work. We obviously look at data as
one tool. We ran experiments as one tool but after you have all that
there are still these pieces where you have to use your judgment you
take all these signals and you put something out and sometimes it works.
It doesn\'t. And you have to go figure that out.

\[00:16:40\] Right. So from those early days how long did it take.

\[00:16:44\] Before you thought you were onto something that could be
really really big that you\'d build something that could be used for
lots and lots of people.

\[00:16:53\] You know what\'s funny is like I don\'t think there is this
one moment like we were growing every month. And I think it wasn\'t
until we went out to go raise some more money. So you felt like things
were going well. We want to use money as a tool to grow the business
that we are first forced to say you know how big do we think this can
be. And I remember feeling kind of this dual feeling. One is like my
nature isn\'t to be like this thing is going to be really. But I\'m
talking to an investor who became a mentor of mine so you know why not.
Now why couldn\'t it be if you thought about it that way how would it
change. And that\'s how we think about it today. You know today when I
talk to the company I say you know we want to build the world\'s catalog
of ideas. The tool that everyone uses to discover things in their
everyday life. And in a weird way sort of raising the bar on on what the
company can\'t be ends up attracting people who are more ambitious and
are more creative in solving big problems.

\[00:17:50\] So between the time of kind of launching pentru as you\'re
working on two you decided that\'s not getting much traction let\'s
launch Pinterest something it feels great to us. Did you. Between that
time of sort of launching Pinterest and growing it as you mentioned and
getting to your series. Did you have multiple smaller kind of
fundraisings or how did you finance the company.

\[00:18:12\] We did a little bit more money from some other angel
investors but we also were not spending very much money. So the team is
incredibly small. How small I think it was like five five six people OK.
Who was bringing your own computer. It was in the two bedroom apartment
where one of the rooms is rented to a guy who didn\'t work at the
company. And I think that\'s because we\'d been without money for so
long it just didn\'t really know. We didn\'t really know how long it
would take. So everything was kind of through that lens of like how do
we make sure that we just have what we can to keep going for us. I
don\'t think fundraising has ever been like a goal. It\'s just this tool
that you use to get to the next step and actually I think a problem
that\'s happened sometimes recently is people confuse money the tool
with the goal of the company. The goal is not to raise a bunch of money.
The goal is to get the resources you need whether there are talented
people or whether they\'re users or whether they\'re a piece of
technology. To then achieve and build the product and service that you
want.

\[00:19:12\] So let\'s talk about attracting people. One of the things
that you\'ve said you\'ve been quoted as saying is that when you\'re
trying to attract people to your startup great people to your startup
people are attracted. They don\'t want a guarantee of success
necessarily. They want a guarantee of an adventure and that was a sort
of approach you took in recruiting people in. Can you talk about that.

\[00:19:35\] Yeah you know really early on like I didn\'t have like a
network of engineers in Silicon Valley right. So we did all kinds of
things similar to marketing. You know the first engineer one of the
first ones we hired I put an ad on Craigslist. He replied. And then as
we started to get a little bit of momentum we would try to just use the
assets we had and what we had with this shitty apartment on California
Avenue with a patio. And we\'re like our asset is going to be this
apartment because people see it deafeningly and know that we haven\'t
made it yet. But if we throw barbecues there they\'re going to know
we\'re we\'re cool people. So we would throw these barbecues every
Friday. It was like Bring your own food.

\[00:20:15\] And then we would bring beer and actually we recruited a
lot of people there and I think that the people that we loved are
recruiting kind of intuitively you kind of recruit people that are a
little bit like yourself when you get bigger you want to recruit people
that are very different from yourself. But I loved I love people that at
their core they were they were builders they wanted to be known for what
they built not what they said. They tended to be curious about a ton of
different things but then deep in something. And so now our first
engineers you know one of the guys in his first senior game like what
have you built. And he he pulled out his phone. He built like magic
tricks for his kids. He built these crazy games. He was building these
crazy robots in his garage. One of our next really engineers he was
actually a cartoonist. That that stopped cartooning he became an
engineer and that kind of became the calling card of a lot of our early
folks. I\'m people that we\'re almost outsiders to technology. And I
think that\'s served us really well as a company.

\[00:21:18\] I think today with Pinterest. You know you have millions
and millions of users. Are you still trying to solve the same problem
today as you\'re originally trying to solve. How is your conception of
Pinterest as a product changed.

\[00:21:33\] No I think a lot of the problem is stay the same. But the
scope of the ambition has changed. I always think like if I could go
back in time and say like oh you know Ben 2008 you know he had a million
users who\'d be happy I\'d be like really overjoyed. But for me there\'s
always this widening gap between where you are and in the world of the
ambition you know today when I think about Pinterest I mentioned that I
have this idea of wanting to build the catalog of ideas. And that to me
means like what if there was a tool where everyone publish ideas that
you could use into one place. What if it was so personalized that
understood your preferences and every time you used it it became more
customized to you. And what if when you saw those ideas they had all the
information you needed to make it happen. If it\'s a product you could
buy it. If it\'s a recipe you could cook it. And I think there\'s
something very very beautiful about that because because today there are
a lot of services that try to give you objective answers to everything.
You know if you ask google a question it\'ll return like a factually
right answer very quickly. But there aren\'t as many tools that are
fully devoted to helping you discover what\'s right for yourself. And in
fact I think that a lot of technology is pushing people to project an
image of who other people want them to be rather than giving them a
space just to think about who am I. I mean I\'d love Pinterest to play a
small role in doing that. I\'m for small things you know like like
making dinner or maybe for big things like like designing your home or
doing a big creative project and that\'s kind of my dream. But then how
we\'re doing it. I couldn\'t have imagined one of the great perks of
starting a company is that you get to hire people that are way better
than you and all these other areas. And so we have computer vision
folks. Now we have we have great engineers we have wonderful designers
we have writers. I think that\'s one of the fun things about trying to
assemble a team against a North Star goal.

\[00:23:22\] Now that you\'ve built this really meaningful product that
millions tens of millions of people or hundreds of millions of people
use you reflect back what was your moment of greatest discouragement.

\[00:23:32\] What was your sort of lowest point in the history of
Pinterest. How did you get through it so many like I think everyone has
real moments of self-doubt.

\[00:23:46\] You know I can think of a whole bunch of times where there
were things that were going on outside like we didn\'t think we could
scale the service. I actually remember a day we had three engineers and
we had to Shahd the database.

\[00:23:59\] And I was like What is this thing going to work. And
they\'re like well we have to do it and I\'m like what could go wrong.
Well we could lose everyone\'s user data forever. So that sounds really
bad. It\'s not that bad because we\'re guaranteed to lose it if we
don\'t do something like I. It\'s not not the most inspiring thing. I
mean there are there all these moments but I think you just kind of keep
going. And in one of the one of the real privileges that I\'ve had in
Silicon Valleys I\'ve gotten to meet a lot of these entrepreneurs who
are honestly my idols like people that I read about like they were
fictional characters like Robinson Crusoe or something and finding out
that actually they got where they got by making a series of mistakes and
then learning from them and moving forward. That was a really long
lesson for me to learn. You know as I said you my parents are doctors
like you know Facebook is famous for having these signs. Move fast and
break things like when you go to the doctor\'s office. Like when you go
into the car you don\'t want to sign fast enough.

\[00:24:59\] So that mentality took me a long time and part of I think
my job as the leader of the company is to make sure everyone in the
company feels like they can take risks and learn from them and that
process of learning is more important than avoiding errors at any given
point.

\[00:25:15\] I want to ask you about mentors and mentorship. Are there
mentors that you have relied on. They made a difference. How did you
find them and how important is that even it\'s been really important
actually know I\'ve had different folks at different times.

\[00:25:34\] I mention there was an early investor there\'s a guy named
Kevin Hart who founded the company Eventbrite. He was one of the first
people that was really successful in Silicon Valley and it really took
time to talk to me about things. I think there are other ventures that
offer you support. Sometimes I cringe a little bit at sort of the life
and death language used to describe startups because I think the biggest
risk of a startup is is actually the founders becoming so discouraged
they burned out. But if you go into it saying like survive or die like
tying your personal like self self-worth to that how come of this
company I think that only increases the peril of that happening. So
I\'ve met friends. I mean they\'re not inventors are just people that
are like hey things aren\'t going so bad like life keeps moving on. You
know and now I\'ve said people many people who have seen companies that
are bigger than the ones that we\'re building to ask them hey what
should I look out for here. Just to maybe see around some corners. So
all different forms so you\'ve been active about trying to develop
develop that. Yeah I mean I think say that I\'m not under any illusion
that I know how to run a company of this size like I\'ve never done it
before. Not that many people have and so one of my one of my core jobs
is to learn as fast as I can in starting companies. Just like anything
else you learn by trying and failing and you learn by talking to people
that might have succeeded before you.

\[00:26:53\] How has your job changed your day to day activities change
from five person company that built the first version of Pinterest to a
company with several hundred people a year run into the while there were
some parts that are the same and some of them are different.

\[00:27:08\] I mean I think that the founders always responsible for
driving clarity on what you\'re building and why. And for talking about
what is the standard culturally and objectively that people you want to
bring in a company. I don\'t think that ever changes. I think what
changes is that more and more your job becomes creating an organization
and finding people that can build that and that will do it better than
yours and also making sure that those people feel like they are part of
that mission. They\'re not like building it for somebody else. And in
really practical ways that means like I have to communicate a lot more.
It means that I had to start to learn how to manage people and I say
start and like that\'s I\'d never manage anyone before. As anyone who
had managed can attest in those parts those parts have changed changed
quite a bit. I know talking to lots of people that\'s changed when we
were really small when we would get press inquiries. I was a pretty
introverted person so I just wouldn\'t reply I\'d be like we\'re busy.

\[00:28:10\] That was my strategy. It\'s like a new york times would
come in and I\'d be like I\'m really busy right now. And that\'s not a
good strategy.

\[00:28:23\] Do you how deeply are you involved in the product today and
the design decisions or is that now that you\'ve hired so many great
people. Are you a step removed from that.

\[00:28:37\] So I\'m still involved in products. But you know my job
isn\'t to literally pixel like pixel credit critic. You know the service
it\'s hopefully to ask the right questions and get the teams to come up
with better ideas. That\'s actually I think a hard transition for a lot
of founders to make. But I think it\'s a really important one. At some
point you have to not let go the product but have faith that the people
you\'ve hired that are closer to the problem. I mean that you\'ve hired
because they have great judgment because they\'re talented they\'re
going to execute better. But your job is to sort of unify that into a
singular product vision of it.

\[00:29:13\] One last question for you. It\'s a it\'s a squishy one. I
wanted to ask you about culture at a company an organization and for you
at Pinterest you know what. What is do you think actively about the
culture of the company. What values is it based on and and how do you
build that. How do you build it from being this tiny thing to this
company now that I\'m sure you have employees who you don\'t know you
don\'t know their names like what what what\'s the glue that binds.

\[00:29:44\] Well it is you know it\'s kind of it\'s a squishy topic
when when you\'re small you don\'t have to write down your culture it
just sort of takes care of itself.

\[00:29:51\] I mean you were saying you hire people who love to build
things and you know that through your recruiter you kind of have a
certain dilemma.

\[00:29:57\] That\'s right. Some parts of our culture are similar to
others. Like I want people to be obsessed with the users that we build
for the people that use our service. And so we have values around that.
And we try to reduce every decision you like. What\'s what\'s really
best for pinners. I would say the unique thing for us. The thing that
might be different is I\'m really I\'m a really firm believer that for
Pinterest the more diverse the skills that we have in the building the
more diverse the backgrounds of the people that we hire the better the
product will be. You know I think that you\'re kind of a sum of all your
experiences and so when we build products I value engineering and we
value design and we value writing and we value marketing very very
deeply. We hire people that are multitalented and I\'m very interested
in hiring people who don\'t share the same backgrounds to kind of fight
the natural inertia that I described before you hire people like
yourselves. I\'m very interested in hiring women. I\'m very interested
in hiring underrepresented minorities. I\'m very interested in hiring
people from outside the United States that bring different perspectives.
Now because it\'s like a nice thing to do but because I genuinely
believe that we will build better products if you can knit all of those
ideas together into something unified. And so that\'s that\'s one thing
that we value when we try to live and we try to push very very hard
amongst our teams wonderful who we are.

\[00:31:17\] I think I speak for everyone we\'re so excited to see where
you continue to take control. Thank you so much for joining us today.

\[00:31:22\] Thanks Reynolds.
