**Chad Rigetti at Startup School SV 2016-GzMvG8UO6Eg.mp4**

\[00:00:00\] And everybody. Our next speaker is Chadrick getit from
McGeady quantum computing Righetti quantum computing and went through Y
C in the summer of 2014. At that point they had nothing. They are now
one of the leading quantum computing companies in the world. And next
year well I don\'t know exactly what they are getting close to a quantum
supremacy machine. I have a particular love for the startups where
they\'re trying to do something. It\'s not clear if it\'s technically
possible but if they do it change the world and it just goes nothing
nothing nothing nothing. And then everything is different. These
companies are super fun to work with. And I think they\'re super fun to
work on which is why I\'m so excited. Chad\'s here to tell us about
Righetti and also hard technology startups in general and why it\'s OK.
If you don\'t have a growth graph every week sometimes you just work and
work and work and then everything comes together. Check them out here
because I have a question for you.

\[00:00:58\] So Chad and I met on the streets of San Francisco and I
walked around the financial district in 2014 and chatted. It started
this company was thinking about it and Chad I\'ve actually never spoken
about this again but I think I hope you remember this. I think Chad
thought I was really crazy because we got into a long conversation about
this simulation hypothesis and if a building a quantum computer was
actually bad. Because it would use a lot of resources to emulate and
shut down the simulation do you think I was really crazy.

\[00:01:29\] It was a very interesting conversation.

\[00:01:31\] Laughter.

\[00:01:33\] Is that like you know and as you can say yes I didn\'t
think you\'re crazy but I had just moved to San Francisco into Silicon
Valley from New York City. And that is not a conversation you can have
in New York City without people thinking you\'re crazy. Laughter But
I\'m an open person and I like to learn. So I was very interested in
this hypothesis and it was an amazing conversation. It was really fun.

\[00:01:54\] All right well I hope the company works and I hope the
simulation is not shut down. Great thank you. That will help. All right.
So Chad is going to talk to us about getti. Thank you for coming.
Awesome. Thank you so much Sam.

\[00:02:10\] Applause.

\[00:02:11\] All right. I\'m incredibly excited to be here today and to
talk with you guys.

\[00:02:17\] I\'m also incredibly honored. So thank you very much Sam
and Cat NYC for having me. Give me the opportunity to talk with you guys
so this I mentioned when we joined Y Combinator in summer 2014. We had
nothing. We had not built a single Cubitt the fundamental building block
of Acorda computer. We did not know how we were going to build cubits. I
knew what they needed to look like and I knew what the fundamental
requirements were. In fact I\'d been working in the fields for already
about 10 or 12 years in quantum computing. And this is a five cubic
corner computer that we have built at Righetti computing. It\'s less
than two years later and we\'re about 35 people in a warehouse in
Berkeley about 20 somePh.D. and we\'re building contributors and we\'re
in a race to define this technology for the next 20 30 40 years and
it\'s incredibly fun.

\[00:03:18\] It is the kind of thing that gets you up in the morning and
is worth spending your life on humans are building.

\[00:03:29\] Humans have been building tools and technology to store and
process information for millennia. I\'d like to think of the sundial as
the original computer. It takes an input and it tells us something
useful with it and tells you the time from the sundial to the abacus and
then things like that Babbage Difference Engine which you can go see at
the Computer History Museum. It\'s amazing and you should do it to punch
cards. Those are all systems based on Newtonian mechanics. And every
time our understanding of nature evolves and develops further we add a
deeper level of understanding. Our technology progresses as well. So
many great companies were born of this first transition that I\'m
talking about on the slide. IBM started as a computing Tabulating
Recording Company. They made punch punch cards and time clocks. They
were kind of born out of this first transition into the microchip era.
And they say know they blossomed and evolved and survived through that
through this time to grow into a very very large company. Other
companies that drove that first transition.

\[00:04:30\] Q Was it Fairchild intel. And then what\'s been born in
that area of the microchip. Well almost everything we see around us
driven the global economy for the past 50 or 60 years.

\[00:04:44\] That\'s incredible the amount of leverage you can get from
a computing technology is massive. And you know what we\'ve known since
1985 that beneath is Newton\'s laws on one hand and then beneath that
there is kind of Maxwell\'s equations and we\'ve known since 1985 that
there\'s a more fundamental description of nature and that\'s quantum
mechanics. At Righetti computing we\'re driving this next transition
from microchips to the systems based on individual atoms or artificial
atoms that we build in the lab. And that\'s a very exciting opportunity
for for us so why is it worth doing this.

\[00:05:20\] This sounds incredibly hard. Why is it worth trying to
build contributors in the first place. Well the kind of problems that
these machines will solve are incredibly impactful.

\[00:05:32\] They fall into two broad categories. We think of them in
kind of two broad categories. On the one hand you have a class of
applications that we think of as quantum chemistry. So what you\'re
doing in this case is using the quantum mechanical the quantum computer
as a tool to investigate other quantum mechanical systems. It turns out
that that\'s almost everything in science medicine material science.
This is stuff that is going to lead to better drugs better materials
better nuclear reactors highly impactful technology. Why are we doing
this. Because if you can you build a quantum computer you can do a
simulation driven design of new catalysts catalysts to capture carbon or
nitrogen from the atmosphere. It can help solve global warming. This is
an incredible incredibly broad technology. The other bucket of
applications is machine learning and artificial intelligence. So in this
case what you do is learn to embed a learning problem on a classically
intractable physical model that you can simulate on a quantum computer.
That\'s a mouthful. What it means is quantum computers are going to lead
a fundamentally more powerful forms of artificial intelligence.

\[00:06:42\] So when I say more powerful what do I mean. Does anyone
recognize this. It\'s on the slide. So this is Tianmei to this is until
about three months ago was the most powerful computer on the planet. It
cost about 400 million dollars it burns about 20 megawatts of
electricity.

\[00:07:06\] Governor how much electricity that is enough to it\'s
enough to power about its enough to power the town I grew up in. About
20000 households it\'s about half the size of a football field.

\[00:07:24\] It\'s based on three point two million Intel cores. So
there\'s two problems with this. Ultimately our approach to building
large scale computers is starting to break. And there\'s two problems
the first is that Moore\'s Law is ending. That\'s been happening for a
long time lateral transistor scaling the fundamental measure of Moore\'s
Law has sort of leveled off for the past eight years. The other thing is
something that I hope you\'ve all heard about in your computer science
class is called Abduls law on US law talks about the limiting benefits
the diminishing returns of parallelization. These are massively parallel
machines. Three point two million cores running in parallel only
problems that can be paralyzed run fast on these kinds of machines.

\[00:08:06\] There\'s a fundamentally better way. Now President Obama
has shown some significant vision in driving a return of American
leadership and high performance computing and he ESET said that America
is going to build an extra scale computer something about 30 times more
powerful than China had to. By 2020 that machine will cost about a
billion dollars with current technology and it would require a nuclear
power plant to run it.

\[00:08:35\] We\'re

\[00:08:35\] gonna do it and we need to.

\[00:08:38\] But

\[00:08:38\] there is another path ultimately when you can compute with
quantum physics you have a faster and cheaper path to that level of
computing power. How is that possible. Well these are two developmental
systems in our lab in Berkeley. These are what you see in the big white
cans are cooling systems every high performance computer has a cooling
system. These ones are very powerful these round the low temperature
inside each of those cooling systems is a single chip. When this picture
was taken we had a five cubic processor in that machine a single chip
with about 60 or 70 cubits on it would be more powerful the entire half
a football field sized sized machine. That\'s what corner computing
unlocks.

\[00:09:23\] So this is a true hard tech startup and one of the
challenges that hard tech companies all talk about this more in a moment
brings is this challenge of operating in a in an arena that is not
well-defined that does not have a well-developed supply chain you know
what you want to do but the capabilities to do it do not exist or are
not commercially or are easily accessible. We\'ve had to develop all of
the building blocks entire supply chain for this technology. What does
that mean for us. We have developed a new new simulation driven design
methods to actually develop design. These quantum chips. We develop our
own fab our own micro fabrication capability. We\'ve developed advanced
electronics that allow you to control these. These chips you can think
of a quantum computer or something like a nuclear reactor where you have
the core the new you know where the reaction is happening that generates
all the power. But then there\'s this really complex traditional
engineering system around that stabilized that it extracts a
computational capability. And that thing is very expensive and requires
very advanced control of Onix and then ultimately we have access to
these machines over the cloud. And so we have to have cloud software and
applications and a lot of work. There\'s a lot of different things
you\'ve got to tie together in one organisation to do this. This slide
is frankly a synthesis of the past 15 years of my life. I\'ve been
working on this problem my entire adult life. I was a junior in college
in Saskatchewan Canada and. Really that\'s amazing.

\[00:10:54\] Laughter laughter Where are you from. Laughter.

\[00:11:00\] Oh wow Mustafa here Mustafa. I was a junior at the
University of Virginia Regina Saskatchewan Canada and a physics major. I
was incredibly frustrated. I was very very frustrated. I didn\'t
understand two basic things that I thought every human on the planet
should understand what\'s quantum physics and how do computers actually
work.

\[00:11:26\] How do they actually store or process represent
information. About the same time I read about a field called quantum
computing. I like to synthesize things. I thought this was amazing.
There is one field that I can learn instead of having to learn to this
makes life so much easier.

\[00:11:45\] I\'ve been working on that ever since and that was in 2001.
I heard about these people at Yale University that had an idea for
building Kornet computers. You can build these things out of real
individual atoms or ions that\'s really hard because individual atoms
are ions are extremely tiny and very very hard to control. They said why
don\'t we build these things out of special electrical circuits based on
superconductors that have no dissipation and build them in such a manner
that they mimic real atoms build an artificial atom out of an electrical
circuit like that. That\'s amazing. That\'s such a great idea because
what\'s going to happen is you\'re gonna be able to leverage all of
traditional semiconductor manufacturing capabilities. You\'re gonna be
able to build a scalable tech chip technology someday based on those
superconducting cubits. I spent about seven years with those with that
group at Yale as aPh.D. student a postdoc. I spent about three years in
doing further research at IBM in quantum computing and in 2013 I started
Righetti computing to develop quantum integrated circuits and that\'s
what we\'ve done.

\[00:12:54\] So this is the jump on my second slide.

\[00:12:57\] This is the leap from Newtonian plus Maxwell\'s equations
to Newtonian plus Maxwell\'s equations plus Schrodinger\'s equations
quantum physics and ultimately to offer you a working definition if
there\'s any physics majors in the audience I want to give you a working
definition of a quantum computer quantum computer store and process
information in individual photons.

\[00:13:17\] That\'s it your iPhone.

\[00:13:23\] The iPhone 7 uses about 100 billion photons for a bit
processed. It may be as much as 10 to the 17 and 100 billion photons per
bit transmitted this is far more efficient technology.

\[00:13:39\] Okay so I want to talk for a moment about the distinction
between a hard tech company and a tech company. First of all when I say
hard tech I don\'t mean it\'s harder. Although it feels harder. What we
mean is every company and look at the companies on the sly. These are
incredible organizations incredible incredible organizations incredible
companies incredible products incredible founders.

\[00:14:06\] These are all incredibly hard things there\'s one
distinction a hard tech company has to deal with and include in addition
to all of the tech execution Markovitz all the standard things all the
gauntlet that you have to steerer your organization through to survive.
Fundamental questions of possibility you have to deal with that when
you\'re a hard tech company that is. That is the signature of a hard
tech organization.

\[00:14:36\] There\'s two things I want you to take away from this. The
first is that well with all of that risk we\'re saying it might not even
be possible. Why the hell are you going to do that. Why the hell is
anyone going to invest in your company if it might not be possible to
even do it.

\[00:14:56\] Why is it worth it. If you\'re not sure it\'s possible.
Well there\'s two things you get from my perspective.

\[00:15:03\] The first is if and when you are successful you create
monumental leverage and defense ability. Think of the Manhattan Project
as a canonical hard tech organization. Look at the fucking leverage they
created.

\[00:15:17\] Laughter. That\'s incredible.

\[00:15:21\] The Apollo missions when President Kennedy said in 1961 as
a nation we\'re going to put a American on the surface of the moon and
return him safely to Earth by the close of this decade.

\[00:15:38\] That was an important moment for mankind.

\[00:15:44\] That\'s the kind of story that isn\'t written in quarterly
reports and spreadsheets that\'s written in here glyphs on cave walls
that\'s the kind of stuff that stirs the heart that\'s what you get when
you do a hard tech company and that is so powerful. Now I want you to
notice something on this site.

\[00:16:05\] Look at these amazing companies at some point the defense
ability and leverage that hard tech provides and the incredible passion
that you engender by working on problems of that scope and impact leads
organizations on the left to pushing into that into hard tech in order
to access those things.

\[00:16:29\] Think of Uber moving into self driving cars. Think of
Google now 100 seedlings hoping to turn something into a long term
defense ability. Microsoft builds software and has started working on
quantum computing that\'s what you get with a hard tech company. Now
there\'s also significant challenges and I want to talk about three of
them for a moment. Team communication and integration. So first of all
building an organization that has world\'s experts in X Y zie all of the
things that you need to master as an organization is incredibly hard. It
comes with its own set of challenges. You\'re going to have to interface
to the best scientists and engineers on the planet in those various
fields. You\'re going to hire them. You\'re going have to bring them all
into one company and you\'re going to have to find a way to smash them
to allow them to talk to each other under the roof of one organization.
And that leads into this integration challenge.

\[00:17:35\] Integrating an organization that does all these disparate
things we have people on the team. We have a Rhodes scholar who\'s been
doing research in quantum computing for 10 years and is 27 years old. We
have tenured physics faculty. We have someone teach in a course at
Caltech who built the communication systems on the Mars rover missions.
We have an incredible organization and one of the problems we\'ve solved
it that we have people who can all have a conversation together because
they all have developed a shared language. That level of integration
becomes a long term weapon for your organization.

\[00:18:11\] Huge amount of value can be created by now communication
we\'re not doing this because quantum computing is interesting.

\[00:18:24\] We\'re doing this to cure cancer and to solve global
warming how you talk about what you do as an organization is incredibly
impactful. I encourage you to spend a lot of time thinking about it. I
did this a few years ago and I decided that our mission as an
organization when there were three people in the company was we\'re on a
mission to build the world\'s most powerful computer.

\[00:18:47\] It gives you some of the sink your teeth into. It\'s a
little more tangible than photons.

\[00:18:53\] We did this exercise again in the in the past month with
the team fully built out well partially built out at the stage and we
got to the same thing.

\[00:19:05\] It\'s really amazing why are we doing it we\'re we\'re
building the most powerful computers in the world to solve humanity\'s
most important and pressing problems. That\'s a rallying cry that can be
very impactful for your organization. Now the other thing you get with
integration is the opportunity create all this defense ability. So the
chip the quantum integrated circuit is one part of it that gives you an
Intel kind of business for the computing narrow. We\'re not stopping at
that because no one is competing at all these different levels today and
we have an opportunity to build moats around the entire thing. The next
layer up is to build the system become a master system integration.
That\'s an IBM style business. And then ultimately don\'t the software
and platform out in the Microsoft style business. Ultimately I want to
go full stack and also include the Google style business of applications
and designing new drugs to to save people\'s lives.

\[00:19:55\] All right. So before we move on to this I want you I\'ll do
some for me I want you to do this one thing for me I want you to take 10
minutes today.

\[00:20:09\] After this at the break. When you go home during your
meditation whatever you want to do I want you to take 10 minutes and
look in your heart. I don\'t want you to ask yourself the question what
kind of company do I want to join or found what kind of organization
resonates with me. And when you do that spend that 10 minutes when you
do that some small fraction of you it won\'t be many. Some small
fraction of you will say you know what I want to do the thing that stirs
my heart. I want to do the thing that calls to me that is worth spending
your life on one last thing.

\[00:20:47\] So one of the special challenges that a hard tech
organization faces is the capabilities to do what you need to do don\'t
exist if they existed it wouldn\'t be hard.

\[00:20:59\] Check organization so there\'s this tension that exists in
all companies but is especially accentuated in hard tech attention
between developing the product. Take your product from concept to market
get the product built ship the product with the things you need to do to
enable that at each successive stage of evolution company development
build the capabilities and create organizational clarity. That\'s your
job as a founder and a leader. What should you work on found that there
is a useful framework. I thought about this problem for a really long
time because I was spending every day trying to balance these two
competing tensions ultimately these are both processes of pumping
entropy out of the system. You have an idea for the product. I know what
this Cornick Peter wants to look like. It\'s all you know. But it
doesn\'t exist it doesn\'t exist yet. There\'s all these questions we
have to answer. I think when you starts basically an idea from what this
rocket was going to look like there\'s a gazillion micro decisions that
have to be made to actually manifest that thing in the real world. That
is a process of pumping entropy out of the vision.

\[00:22:02\] Same with company development creating this organizational
clarity building the capabilities answering the question are we going to
do our own fab or we\'re going to outsource. We\'re going to partner
with IBM to the Fabra we\'re going to how we can do the fab we have to
answer that question. Ultimately that is a process of pumping HP of the
system. There\'s a lot of things that this leads to one is it tells you
who you should hire.

\[00:22:24\] Some people create order and clarity in their wake. They
create systems they execute systems they reinforce systems they train
other people how to use those systems.

\[00:22:36\] Other people generate entropy know what you\'re looking for
hire people who pump entropy out of your vision for your organization.
It\'s incredibly powerful so this is one of my favorite pictures I\'ve
ever seen. This is a picture of the control data Corporation. Sixty six
hundred machine what I love about it is look clergy it is. There\'s
wires hanging out of this thing everywhere you can see the pumps down in
the corner.

\[00:23:06\] This machine was the is widely considered the first
supercomputer the United States blocked the export of one of these
things to our allies in France.

\[00:23:20\] It was incredibly impactful at a geopolitical level. And
who built it. A group of 34 folks in the woods of Wisconsin 34 people
built the world\'s most powerful computer. I can\'t even read the memo.
It\'s too powerful.

\[00:23:42\] Ultimately 34 people compete in a giant behemoth that is
what happens in high performance computing. That is what happens with a
lot of hard tech organizations and it\'s an incredible opportunity for
you. If this pulls at your heartstrings. Thank you very much. Applause.
