**Ooshma Garg at Startup School SV 2016-KmfuIt96vU4.mp4**

\[00:00:02\] Good morning everybody. And.

\[00:00:10\] Thank you all for coming and spending your Saturday with
us. This is always one of our favorite days of the year. We get to meet
many new founders. There\'s a long tradition of people in the audience
leader coming to speak at Startup School after they start a company and
become really successful. So I hope you enjoy the talks we have today. I
especially hope you get to know each other. I think a lot of the value
comes from the casual conversations that breaks at lunch and after the
event we have an incredible set of speakers today also I\'m going teach
a class in the first half of 2017 and it is a successor to the class
that I taught last two years ago called How to start a startup and
hopefully we\'ll be a lot better. So if you\'re interested in more
content after today please check it out. If you go to Startup School dot
org today you can put your e-mail address and then we\'ll let you know
when we\'re ready to go.

\[00:01:00\] Our first speaker today is Mogahed Bushmen\'s the founder
of gobble gobble is a C Company Bhishma is one of the many speakers
today that has been in the audience many times before and today she runs
a company that not only am I a happy user of my mom sends me gobble
boxes because she thinks anymore but the company next year will do more
than 100 million dollars in sales.

\[00:01:24\] Yeah.

\[00:01:27\] FISHER So Schmidt thank you very much for coming and
speaking with us. And here she is.

\[00:01:43\] Thank you so much Sam how are you guys doing today. Wow
what an audience. SAMBAS SO nice to call me a speaker with a lineup that
you have today. I consider myself an opener.

\[00:01:56\] You have such an amazing set of speakers today. I\'m just
very grateful to be here and share this moment with you. My name is
Schmied and I\'m the CEO and founder of gobble. We help anyone cook
dinner in just ten minutes.

\[00:02:12\] We\'re the inventors of the ten minute one pan dinner kit
today. I\'m gonna tell you my story and also the power of a mission I
could tell you the whole story with our graph.

\[00:02:30\] This is a stripe revenue data dump of our revenue over the
last five years.

\[00:02:37\] If I were you I would be wondering what happens right here.

\[00:02:41\] Laughter doesn\'t it look like I had no idea what I was
doing. And then we just figured everything out.

\[00:02:51\] And fortunately that\'s not the case. In order to
understand what happens at the promised land you have to know what
happens at the beginning the middle and all along the way the words that
you see up there are actually the words of the startup curve.

\[00:03:11\] Paul Graham to coin this and said that most great startups
follow this curve. You start with this really exciting launch. Little do
you know that you\'re falling into a multi-year slog and Trough of
Sorrow. Then you get Wiggles of hope. I call them hope because any sign
at that point is good. But he calls them Wiggles of false hope. And if
you have the stamina and the grit maybe you\'ll reach the promised land.
I started golfball when I had another company. I was helping students
get jobs at law firms banks and consulting firms and I was a student
myself at Stanford as you know. Startups are a 24/7 job.

\[00:03:58\] I started treating myself like crap.

\[00:04:01\] I would survive off of Starbucks and take out I would eat
alone at my desk and alone in my car and I would eat in my car more
times than I would eat at my apartment eating takeout was very unhealthy
and very lonely. This is even more personal for me because I grew up
with a very colorful upbringing of nutritious home cooked Indian food.

\[00:04:33\] It is delicious. I would come home after track practice to
my dad who would be singing and cooking in the kitchen and starting this
ritual that was near and dear to our family.

\[00:04:45\] Every night of enjoying dinner as a family connected
together when I went to school and started companies this tradition went
down the drain.

\[00:04:58\] My dad actually flew here to California and he packed to
India size suitcases full of his food and filled my fridge. It was at
that point that I thought there had to be another way.

\[00:05:14\] I posted an ad on Craigslist and asked who will make me
dinner for 8 dollars a plate. In 24 hours we had 70 responses. There
were people all over the Bay Area that wanted to bring me food and
we\'re so proud of their cooking and wanted to earn a living with it.

\[00:05:35\] At first I thought oh my gosh this is a great dinner HACC.

\[00:05:42\] I called all my friends and I said Hey I have all these
chefs and their interview is to cook us dinner. Do you want some free
food.

\[00:05:52\] You can guess the response. I was the most popular friend
for a good three months there.

\[00:05:58\] I emailed the chefs they would come and make food for us.
And what started as fun and games and just feeding myself very quickly
became a serious opportunity I made a calendar of chefs that we liked
and the meals that they would cook each day. And then I emailed my
friends to ask who won a dinner that day. It was that simple.

\[00:06:20\] I was just organically feeding myself and my friends what
started on paper and to pay pal and me driving my car was actually the
foundation of what would become a business. The supply and demand was
building and I was getting really happy. I was getting happy again and I
saw that a mission was forming. I tried to figure out what was
energizing me and I was getting my home back and my my tradition back
and I was I was feeling love again. And I was giving my friends healthy
home cooked food and nourishing my soul. People were starting to order
dinner for me everyday. I wanted to take this further some of my friends
told me Well if you want to make this a business you\'ll need to get a
technical co-founder. So I started shopping for cofounders. I did
founder dating we went to coffee we went to drinks and ultimately I
couldn\'t find anyone that was willing to quit their job that cared
about this idea as much as I did. And that really wanted to play the
long game with me.

\[00:07:34\] So then I said I feel so strongly about this. Screw it I\'m
gonna do it anyway. I started talking to my friends about who I could
reach out to that might want to invest in me. I made a list of
investors. One of them at the top of that list was Keith boy. He was an
early investor in Araby in B and Yelp and at the time he had just
invested in Araby in B and now he\'s a partner at Khosla Ventures some
of my friends and knew him and I knew he would love what we were doing.

\[00:08:07\] From the consumer side and just from the essence of the
business. So I asked for some introductions. One friend introduced me to
Keith who is now a multi billion dollar public company CEO.

\[00:08:20\] And Keith said Sorry I just started a new job at Square.
I\'m not investing in any more companies so then I asked another friend.
I said No no no. He doesn\'t know what what he really wants.

\[00:08:33\] So I asked another friend and that friend is another NYSE
founder Bill clerical if we pay.

\[00:08:42\] He asked Keith if Keith would be willing to meet with me
and Keith said the same thing. No no I\'m starting a new job. No new
investments. Finally I asked my friend Jason photography who was one of
the biggest founding designers atMint.com and also a serial entrepreneur
who actually connected me on e-mail with Keith so that gave me an
opportunity to follow up. You can see here that every few days for
almost six weeks I was just emailing him little pings with no response.
So I meet up with Jason at Red Rock Cafe right here in Mountain View and
he says Schmuhl what\'s going on. Keith met you yet.

\[00:09:24\] And I said no and I feel so strongly that he would love
what I\'m doing. And he goes do you want me to text him.

\[00:09:33\] And I said yes. Do it. And if we could have sent him
emerges Snapp\'s Goofy\'s.

\[00:09:41\] At the time I would have added those on to the good news is
that it worked. Jason texted Keith and he said Oh my God I\'ll give her
twenty minutes. Can she be here in an hour.

\[00:09:54\] Pro tip If you ever want to meet someone that\'s really
hard to reach and you really want to meet them. Always tell them you\'re
nearby or next door.

\[00:10:05\] Laughter I got in my car and I sped so fast down the 1 0 1
to squares offices in San Francisco panting as I got into his office but
really trying to act like I was just around the corner.

\[00:10:23\] Within five minutes Keith came up and met me and he said
Who are you. I got into my pitch. Another five minutes later he was
writing our first check. That\'s how I got our first seed investor which
led to many more.

\[00:10:43\] And we raised our seed round that stunned me for a moment.

\[00:10:59\] Everything was going so great. I remember the feeling we
got in the office. I started hiring people. We launched our first
product. I sent out a company update.

\[00:11:11\] All of our investors were so happy. Little did I know.

\[00:11:18\] Laughter.

\[00:11:20\] We stood on a cliff overlooking this vast Trough of Sorrow
in the first few months I fought tooth and nail for every user.

\[00:11:34\] I would go to coffee shops and convince them to put my
little gobble card on the counter. I would go to mom\'s groups and pitch
gobble myself in front of groups of 20 than 50 moms that are local in
the area. These are photos of personal letters that are Tume and I wrote
that I actually stuck my favorite flower on which is also from area.
This Peruvian Lily. I stuck it on every envelope and then we put our
running shoes on and our headphones and we ran up and down the streets
of Palo Alto putting these envelopes at every door.

\[00:12:08\] Why he tells you to do things that don\'t scale. This is
the thing that doesn\'t scale. First you figure out your distribution
innovation and then you\'ll figure out how to scale it. Things weren\'t
working so well for us. We weren\'t taking off and we were in that
trough of sorrow. A lot of people told me to consider enterprise
catering. They said that I would make a lot of money and they had dollar
signs in their eyes. In the interest to have an up them to the right
graph I went about enterprise catering. I started emailing different
portfolio lisps and we started feeding lots of companies. We were making
lots and lots of money this is a slide from my first series a
fundraising deck it\'s up and to the right. We\'re making more money. It
was everything that I thought we needed and went out to raise Series A
pretty quickly. Investors saw that 80 percent of my revenue was from
Enterprise catering. But 100 percent of my vision was for consumer and
for families I fell flat on my face. And after 40 meetings and six
months of sales and fundraising I had no salary is a and I had no
progress on my mission. The feeling is best explained by a quote from
one of my favorite plays. McBeath he says I have no spur to prick the
sides of my intent. But only vaulting ambition which oversleeps itself
and falls on the other side. This is exactly what happened to me I had
all ambition but I had lost my mission. My North Star was revenue we
remained in the trough of sorrow investors were losing faith in us at
this point. I had tried two different full models for gobble. I had
tried to raise Series A and failed one of our angel investors even asked
me to get acquired by a clothing startup. It was then that I started
listening to my instincts and my insights. I had been working on gobble
for a bit over two years and I knew that I was the only person who had
who had been thinking about this 24/7 and who had all the learnings to
come up with something brand new that align with my true mission. This
was our first real step forward I thought to myself dinner is something
we eat every single day. Technology is at the point where it should be
able to guess exactly what you want at any given time for any different
industry. Especially with food I was in admiration of companies like
Netflix and Pandora and their personalization technology and I thought
to myself its crazy that no one has applied this to the food industry.
It was my vision van that what the future would look like is a software
that had a Pandora like personalization algorithm that took all of my
tastes my past orders what people like similar to me and would be able
to guess and suggest what I should eat for dinner every single day.
Thats what we built.

\[00:16:10\] It started taking off and it was showing in the numbers we
were making five times the revenue of any previous global model and over
35 percent of people were eating gobble on autopilot. That meant that I
understood their tastes and I could send them a menu and that they
wouldn\'t change it at all. Some people would add sides or change their
meals. But this was really exciting to me.

\[00:16:39\] I went out to race series A again. We had an awesome
software product it was showing much more success. It would definitely
be our moment. Unfortunately many other food startups had started during
this time and now they had gotten their investment before. I was looking
for a mine so venture capital firms had already made their bet or they
thought that the space was too crowded and they wanted to see how
everything would play out. I failed at raising series A again and this
time the fall was much harder because I was running out of money. One of
my friends suggested why don\'t you think about and try Y Combinator.

\[00:17:31\] My first reaction was that this is a huge blow to my pride.
I\'ve worked so hard and we\'ve already raised a seed round.

\[00:17:39\] How could I go to a startup accelerator when your choices.
Are to join Y Combinator or die.

\[00:17:50\] Laughter You put your ego aside and you choose Y
Combinator.

\[00:18:00\] I am so glad I did Y Combinator was the lifeline that we
needed and we wouldn\'t be here today without them. Just so you know how
bad it was. I had made my last full payroll before getting the wife\'s
money. We had employees we had drivers we had customers ordering and I
was so close to losing everything. That I was staring into death and Y
Combinator saved us. We still had to be scrappy. You have to remember
that that whole time in the trough of sorrow you have to make every
penny count and even afterwards this is a photo of our head of
engineering Chris Woodforde and I.

\[00:18:55\] We\'re putting all putting on all of our rain gear because
our office was this rickety warehouse in East Palo Alto that would leak
from the roof when it rained so we would have buckets next to our IMAX
cinema displays during the spring because the roof was leaky. One day it
was so bad that it started flooding under the building and getting into
our floor. So this is us getting in gear to put sandbags all around our
warehouse and try to stop the flooding.

\[00:19:26\] By the way the other photo is our conference room with Y C
we made every penny count. I went back to the basics as the founder of
your company. It is always good to go back to the basics and it\'s
always good to talk to your customers visited customers every single
week.

\[00:19:56\] And I learned something. Y Combinator tells you to talk to
your customers because it will help you test and iterate your product
and it will help you find product market fit. What they don\'t tell you
is that if you meet with your customers you\'ll learn you\'ll not only
see what you\'re doing but you\'ll see why you\'re doing it. I thought
our mission was to deliver home cooked food to busy people. That\'s what
I said in the beginning of this presentation. But really that\'s what we
do. That\'s our product spec and in fact it\'s very narrow what I
learned from visiting people is I wasn\'t measuring my success by geste.
If we completed the delivery to their house I was watching their
reaction and their emotion and how they felt about the food. That\'s
when I learned and uncovered our true mission which is why we do what we
do and why people care about gobble and it\'s because we create moments
of love. We create love through food once you find your mission. And
your north star. And you said it in the right place. Everything falls
into place we talked about ambition earlier ambition is very singular
mission is shared ambition is not enough mission is the strength it
takes to get through the trough of sorrow and all the way to product
market fit.

\[00:21:45\] Mission is something that I shared with these 10x hires who
have stayed with our company through all the ups and downs. If you
recruit people or convince people based upon ambition they will leave in
the tough times.

\[00:22:01\] If you recruit people with your mission they will stay with
you for the long just as we had found our mission.

\[00:22:13\] I had recruited our team and we were meeting with all these
customers. One journalist came out with a article covering the entire
food space this is what she wrote about. Gobble gobble was puttering
about on the peninsula. With its paltry funding and its ever evolving
business model she might as well have taken the sword put it in my heart
and twisted it. This was the hardest thing for me to hear. And for our
team to see but because of our mission. Some people on our team took it
even lighter than I did and helped encourage me that we were really onto
something and that we needed to compete with ourself and not with others
focus on our customer and keep moving forward. That\'s what we did. When
we visited customers we found that cooking takes way too much time and
it\'s completely exhausting. Takeout takes no time but it doesn\'t feel
good.

\[00:23:29\] It was then that I worked with our Executive Chef Thomas
Ritchie in our kitchen and I thought why can\'t there be something quick
that feels really good.

\[00:23:40\] And he said Well why don\'t you cook.

\[00:23:42\] And I said I\'m so busy cooking Indian food takes two hours
to soak things overnight. Who has the time for that.

\[00:23:50\] And he taught me about the French culinary term me son plus
it means everything in place. In practice at a restaurant every day the
prep cooks and the sous chefs they come to work and they chop all the
vegetables they marinate needs. They prep sauces so that when dinner
service starts the executive chef has everything in place to cook dinner
and just 10 to 15 minutes. I thought this concept was brilliant. So
we\'ve tried to apply it to our families and we thought would they be
willing to do a little work. This is me giving some of our first test
kits to a TaskRabbit in our warehouse. You can see some barbecue Short
Ribs and Barbecue sauce in a bean and a chicken marsala dinner kit in
the pan we crossed our fingers. I was really enjoying that enjoying the
experience and I wanted to see what our customers would say turns out
they loved it enthusiasm was building on its own.

\[00:25:00\] There was a groundswell on social media.

\[00:25:03\] They all started going up a referral started going up our
reviews started going up and we had finally hit the promised land very
quickly after that we switched our entire business to 10 minute dinner
kits. We knew we had invented a new way of cooking something that people
would really enjoy. We had no marketing person on our team and we grew
from zero to millions of dollars per year in a car in just less than one
year and we were able to finally raise our series A round that I had
worked so hard on with Andriessen Horowitz and Trinity ventures both of
these firms.

\[00:25:56\] Both of these firms had rejected me in both previous
rounds. It\'s important to play the long game with your startup and
recognize that these relationships are not just for now but forever
because you may be coming back to the exact same people that you met
earlier. At another point in your journey this is our team today. This
is a photo from Thanksgiving of last year. I can\'t wait for
thanksgiving this year we expect it to be three times as big. It\'s our
biggest company event and we invite all of our employees plus their
family their friends and their kids outside of our company. We have
customers who\'ve now been using us for eight weeks. This is one of
those customers she told me that gobble saved her marriage cooking with
her husband. Everyday is their moment to put the phone down.

\[00:26:52\] Do something simple and feel what it really means to be a
family.

\[00:27:01\] Other families like that of Lerato girl goes. She lives in
Fremont. She said that her life used to be like groundhog day every day.
She would come home and she would have to start cooking then do the
dishes then get ready for the next day. Put her kids to bed and she
never had any time to spend with her family. Now she has an hour to play
with her beautiful daughter Olivia everyday and Olivia is a total boss.

\[00:27:26\] She gets home and she puts on fairy wings to do anything
she wants to do.

\[00:27:34\] Some people ask me how I got through all of this.

\[00:27:36\] Laughter laughs I wish it was that easy.

\[00:27:48\] I have three takeaways for you. The first is great grit
comes from your core.

\[00:27:59\] This is a painting of one of my friends Bernadette Kaye in
San Francisco grit is your ability to keep going even when it hurts.

\[00:28:14\] Your body and your mission will energize you at those
really tough moments and will let you keep going. If you allow it we had
so many moments where I felt so alone. But our mission and our team
strengthened me and I know it will do the same for you. The next is to
experiment. We went through four different models with lots of little
experiments along the way in order to be where we are today. Product
market fit is not just an aha moment. Its the summation of lots of broad
experiments and micro learnings over many many many years.

\[00:29:01\] And last but absolutely not least is mission figuring out
your mission will allow you to approach everything and everyone.

\[00:29:12\] Investor employee or friend with something to give them.
It\'s very important for you to give with your startup so it can grow to
be beyond you and grow to be a long term lasting and meaningful company.

\[00:29:30\] Have grit in your core have experiments in your head and
have your mission in your heart and you will be successful. Thank you.

\[00:29:40\] Applause.
