**Pitch Practice with Paul Buchheit and Sam Altman at Startup School SV
2016-fcyf9z4gSeI.mp4**

\[00:00:08\] All right. So up next we\'re going to do pitch practice.

\[00:00:14\] This is something that we invented by accident a couple of
years ago. One of our speakers had to cancel at the last minute. So we
just threw together this idea. Let\'s bring up some startups. This is
NYC. We\'ve never done it on stage before but the idea was you know a
lot of people they\'ve gone through I see it\'s coming up to demo day
and actually they\'ve never had a real experience like pitching investor
just like cold\'s someone who doesn\'t know anything about them. So he
got this idea hey let\'s just try it out you know have a founder come up
give their pitch and just to warn you they\'re usually like pretty
rough. That\'s kind of the point of it. And then we have a partner in
this case Ali Sam. Come pitch the business. And hopefully he does a
smoother job. We\'ll see a few things to keep in mind this will be a
little bit like the office hours except not at all helpful and laughter.
Probably maybe a little bit more brutal. So just to kind of give you
some context like as a seed investor something you have to keep in mind
is that the median start up is ultimately worth about zero dollars and
probably 95 percent of startups are a bad investment. So you kind of get
in a mode where you\'re just the default no right. It\'s a very it\'s a
little bit cold because you know people are pouring out their hearts and
their print all their dreams into it.

\[00:01:49\] But you know nine times out of a thousand probably no where
way around.

\[00:01:58\] Is always if you have to say no a lot. So when you see a
business where you\'re looking for is like why are you the exception.
Right. So it\'s not good enough just to be like oh that sounds like a
nice business. I have to think like wow this is that one business that
one that I\'ve been saying no for months. But today I\'m going to say
yes. So just to just to kind of frame it for you. All right.

\[00:02:21\] First up let\'s let\'s get a round of applause.

\[00:02:36\] Also just for context I don\'t know anything. So. I\'m not
actually pretending that I didn\'t bother to learn anything. So this is
I\'m hearing about the business for the first time.

\[00:02:46\] So I trying to get a larger introduce yourself.

\[00:02:51\] So I\'m Jana I\'m from ship IMAX and we help agricultural
energy and mining companies hire ships and just to be clear I\'m not
talking about containers. I\'m talking about four ships.

\[00:03:07\] Okay so you do something with ships.

\[00:03:10\] I that part. So this is like if I need to go rent it\'s
like a rental like I need it to go rent.

\[00:03:18\] So you are a commodity trader. You need to shift 50000
tonnes of coal from South Africa to Rotterdam and you come to us find
the ship.

\[00:03:27\] I see. So I took a position on coal in South Africa and
then I had to get it someplace else. And what would I do today.

\[00:03:37\] I don\'t know anything about this business today you\'d
pick up your phone and your email and you would call five to 10 brokers
and say hey I need to move this stuff I see.

\[00:03:48\] So this is like a marketplace where right now those brokers
and they what do they take a big cut and then you\'re going to like
what\'s the value proposition for me as a trader.

\[00:03:57\] So think about this. And today you\'re speaking to all
these different brokers and they can take you three to 24 hours to get
some indications back it can take you up to two weeks and touch you. But
that ship will ship Max. We use satellite technology and navigation to
cover every ship on Earth and we can tell you what ship can make it in
time and fit the specifications and is open in seconds.

\[00:04:24\] OK. So is the idea that it\'s just easier for me or do I
get a better price. Like what. What closes the deal.

\[00:04:31\] So does this two things when you think about trading one
it\'s like a very binary thing as a commodity trader and you need to
know what you\'re delivered prices to the customer. Otherwise someone
else can come come and get that deal instead of you and I both myself
and my co-founder have lost multimillion pound deals for not getting
freight fast enough. And the second proposition is ready service. Would
you rather. Speak to five brokers and receive thousands of e-mails per
deal or would you rather say this is my shit.

\[00:05:05\] Let\'s go.

\[00:05:08\] The letter sounds great. I\'m not in that position so you
have a lot of traction. I mean are you what your growth rate. So we
launched about.

\[00:05:18\] Beta about seven weeks ago and since then what we\'re
trying to do is talk to these charterers these traders and to see if
they would talk to us and give us requests. And to date we\'ve had
about4.5 million lithographs and last week was a great win for us
because we signed one of the largest energy trading companies in well
Jeffrey 150 million tons of products annually.

\[00:05:45\] What does that represent for you. How much revenue are you
going to make off of it.

\[00:05:48\] So it is we\'re still competing with other brokers right
now. The revenue potential was 15 million annually so we\'re now
receiving those recrossed to compete on a deal by deal basis to be
faster and better.

\[00:06:00\] So from their perspective you\'re just another broker is
that right. Yeah. You don\'t even know that you\'re like a tech company.
They\'re just like a new broker. Is that good or bad for you.

\[00:06:10\] So what kind of edging our way in. So the way I\'ve started
this conversation is saying like hey goals to make this much much
faster. Like help us get there. And so they\'re giving us a go. They
want smarter intelligence and the smaller companies want better access
to the market. And so today we\'re just saying yes it\'s no perfect out
of the box right now but give us a go. We\'re not worse than the other
broker.

\[00:06:38\] Have they used you yet or did they just say we\'ll think
about you know Yeah they they they giving us her crusties company ships
have you shipped.

\[00:06:46\] We haven\'t shown them right now. We\'ve basically been
getting Nizer crest which was our first test to see Will they give them
to us because that\'s actually quite a big deal because they\'re telling
you market information. And does that mean that they\'re sending you the
request but then they\'re going with a different broker right now
basically what our problem has been is that we need a bit more funding
to get more men on the ground to help fulfill these requests. Because
right now some of the larger brokers have better intelligence. And so
we\'re starting kind of from zero and each time we\'re kind of getting
closer and closer to actually tracking that tail and beating the
brokers.

\[00:07:29\] So you haven\'t actually won any deals yet. Not yet. How
soon will you win the deal.

\[00:07:34\] I think next week we\'ll talk next week.

\[00:07:39\] So how much will that deal be worth assuming you do get
this deal next week. And that should be worth ten thousand dollars in
what will be your costs behind that like pure profit for you.

\[00:07:51\] And that\'s like pure profit. So is ICOS is just like the
men the people.

\[00:07:57\] Now why is this. Why is this going to be like a hundred
billion dollar company.

\[00:08:03\] So it\'s a huge market and so today like the amount that
these traders spend on brokerage fees today is about three billion
dollars a year at current market lower rates and the largest company
today is a company called coxswains who make 240 million GBP per annum
and I mean to me that also means you have some really formidable
competitors like are they really just a roll over and let you take their
business.

\[00:08:39\] When

\[00:08:40\] are you going to run over.

\[00:08:43\] I think what\'s kind of what\'s interesting that\'s
happening is that the problem with these big guys like they are superior
to the small brokers right. They have more intelligence and they can
SABIC a clients better. But who they can\'t serve as the little guys.
And and they can\'t sell them because it\'s so monumental although their
processes.

\[00:09:05\] So that\'s basically you\'re thinking you\'re coming at the
bottom of the market where there\'s totally neglected. Yes. Is that
where you\'re going after right now is that this first customers is that
at the bottom of the market.

\[00:09:15\] No we Izen been starting the bottom market but actually a
lot of the big guys want to talk to us too because of these superior
intelligence that we can actually leverage free data.

\[00:09:25\] But I mean if there is this bottom of market that\'s
totally neglected why not because you haven\'t done any ships yet.
Right. Why not just go find some these guys who are super neglected.

\[00:09:35\] No we we\'re all working with those as.

\[00:09:39\] So is this it seems like I see a lot of startups where
they\'re basically high level pitch is there\'s these brokers that make
a lot of money.

\[00:09:48\] And we\'re going to cut them out with technology and take
all the money.

\[00:09:52\] But just as a general form like the most obvious for me and
familiar to most of us is like the real estate market right like Redfin
or someone who\'s going to come in and just blow away the brokers. But
so far it seems like I\'ve seen any of those markets. It seems like the
brokers are very good at holding on to their position.

\[00:10:11\] So the key thing in this market. I mean there\'s one thing
to say that we still have brokers so we\'re not a pure technology play
where enabling all brokers to be much smarter than anyone else. And the
cool thing about this market is that intelligence is the main driver.
Traders were warned that brokers with deals based on intelligence
because you need that intelligence to keep getting good right. So if you
can build a platform that is the only thing that can and aggregate and
digest this like explosion of information at scale and you\'re the only
person that can speak to these small companies and the big companies and
mine all that data to actually sell people and more effectively than
anyone else.

\[00:10:55\] OK. So supposing I do believe all of that and that there is
going to be this one tech company that just manages to displace all of
the brokers. Why should I believe it\'s you.

\[00:11:08\] So 18 combines like a few things one stock that experience
not only growing businesses to very experienced brokers on team as well
as people have been on the trading side of this market as well as deep
technical talent. And I think you need all those things and this is very
difficult people and people in this industry generally don\'t know
anything about technology. It\'s very old industry and people who
understand technology and generally don\'t understand like the niche
things that you need to care about when shipping 50000 tonnes worth of
commodities have you shipped a lot of commodities.

\[00:11:46\] A few Hawash. So it was more my co-founder than me on
acquaintance\'s and he was shipping. I don\'t know thousands tens of
thousands of tons of fertilizer.

\[00:12:01\] People are signaling to me does that mean it\'s time. All
right I think I think next time. Thank you very much.

\[00:12:08\] Claude All right.

\[00:12:16\] So I have. This is the first time I met Jenna and heard
about the business. So I\'m going to try to pitch it but I will probably
get all the numbers and secret plans for the future wrong. Hopefully
we\'ll still be illustrative and helpful and I\'m going to treat this
like I would treat a meeting with an angel investor that I was trying to
get to write me a check. So hey Paul I\'m Sam Sharemax. So I\'ll tell
you about what we do and maybe I can start with kind of who we are so we
are building a marketplace for shipping shipping is still 9 percent of
world GDP. It\'s one of the biggest markets. People don\'t think about
and it hasn\'t moved forward much with technology. So it\'s still if you
need to ship something you call around you call a broker who then knows
a bunch of ships. They try to find one somewhere in the world that can
take what you need and and then you pay them in and they ship it for
you. Everyone thinks that the market has become really efficient because
they\'ve read the box and they know about containers and they think
they\'re like This is a solve problem. But still more than half of all
cargo doesn\'t get shipped that way and it is still there\'s been no
winner that\'s emerged for a Uber like shipping experience where
basically you click a button. You say I need to ship from here to here.
You get a rate you get a boat and it goes. So that\'s where a building
and the standard broker fees are like 15 percent. And so we think this
is a really large market. I\'d be happy to tell you about more details
of our approach. But is this something that at a high level seems
interesting to you.

\[00:13:45\] Yeah if you can make a lot of money it is. It is
interesting. Well I\'d love to tell you why.

\[00:13:51\] We\'re going to make a lot of money. Not only is this a
giant market you know shipping broker fees on cargo shipping is 150
billion dollar a year market. But there is a natural monopoly in that.
Like any other marketplace the the people that have cargo want to go
where they can get the cheapest rate and the most options. And if people
have boats want to go where the most people that needs them and shipped
out. And so even though no one has brought software to this industry yet
and it\'s been the sort of network of people calling brokers calling
around to ships they know why haven\'t one of these existing brokers
just eaten up the market.

\[00:14:28\] Well why do it. Why does any industry not adopt software. I
think there\'s a great quote I heard recently that it is harder for
existing companies to get good technology people than it is for
technology people to learn about other industries. And this is why
startups have an opportunity.

\[00:14:43\] This is why is that the only way that you can eat the
industry that is that. I mean it\'s just naturally fragmented. If you
don\'t have software is that is that your theory.

\[00:14:51\] Well yeah I think it\'s like any other industry it\'s like
Airbnb and b couldn\'t work without software you just had people call
around and find vacation homes they happened to be free or you had to
call taxi companies before Uber and find a cab that was free. The magic
of software is just that any of these industries can become centralized
on one platform that gives everybody a central experience. And in these
large markets these platforms tend to be winner take all the winner take
most and create super valuable companies.

\[00:15:17\] So my theory with these kinds of businesses is always just
that time like tech people go out and they so we\'re going to change
everything but then they show up and the customer says I\'ve been doing
it this way for the last 30 years I do it till I\'m dead. Like how do I
know they\'re actually going to adopt your new approach.

\[00:15:35\] One of the secrets that we\'ve learned as we\'ve been
working on this business is we\'re very new. We\'re only seven weeks
old. We stuff a lot of things left to figure left to figure out. But one
of the things that we\'ve learned is most people are either all humans
or all software and that approach doesn\'t work. And what you need is
the combination you need humans aided by software. This is just like LB2
or how PayPal dealt with fraud and this is what customers want. So
we\'re actually going to have a bunch of brokers that customers can talk
to on the phone like they\'re used to but we\'ll give them software that
makes them 100 times or a thousand times more efficient. But you\'re
totally right. And the reason other people have failed doing this is
they don\'t understand this and they just have a pure software platform
and it really is the combination of humans and software together that
makes this store work with customers that have been doing it for a long
time but have the advantages of a software company in scale. So is this
working right now to have a lot of customers. So are super early. We
haven\'t been able to raise any money yet. We\'re only seven weeks old
in that seven weeks. We\'ve been able to get 50 people that have sent us
jobs. We don\'t yet have enough infrastructure in place to fulfill those
but we expect to actually book three boats next week and we\'ll make our
first 10000 dollars of revenue. And we think we have a path from that
just over the next few months on our existing contacts and when we know
come in well we know is coming in our pipeline to get to 100000 dollars
in revenue and that\'s not GMV or anything like that that\'s actual
profit that we\'re going to keep. We have nearly 100 percent margin on
that. And then what are your expenses. Well as I said I think one of the
key insights here is that we\'re going to be humans and software
together we\'re gonna be brokers and a platform. So our biggest expense
by far will be paying the brokers salary and commission but again I
wasn\'t joking when I said I think we can make them 100 times more
efficient with software. You would not believe how broken the industry
is today would it would pain you to watch out one of these brokers
works. So we think there\'s still substantial economics for us there.

\[00:17:29\] How big does this get ultimately. Where do you see the
business in like 5 in 10 years.

\[00:17:35\] Well the charter market alone the broker market alone is
about 150 billion dollars and that grows. No that\'s not in the market
share there. That\'s their markup at the shipping markets in the
trillions. Again one of the largest drivers of world GDP. But you know
like we\'re pretty ambitious. We think this is a big market and there is
a natural monopoly it could get pretty big.

\[00:17:57\] We\'re very early but why. Why should I mean assuming I do
believe that story like well why do I believe it\'s you and not some
other some other people software.

\[00:18:08\] So we ourselves used to have to do this a lot and we
understand a lot of the things that most people don\'t. We\'re
commodities traders. We\'ve shipped huge amounts of goods and we\'ve
learned these nonobvious things like the most important thing for a
commodity trader is not the price but the speed and the certainty. So
it\'s really important to know if you\'re going to trade on a razor thin
margin that you can have a ship on a particular day at a particular cost
before you buy the coal or whatever. And that\'s just one example I
could give you of many. But we\'ve been doing this our whole lives. We
really know about this and we\'re software people.

\[00:18:43\] That\'s great. Lower. We\'re out of time.

\[00:18:45\] So really quickly I\'d love to have you as an investor
don\'t you want to rush your process but how should we follow up what
are the next steps how do you think about this.

\[00:18:54\] You know Asia like tech just kind of turned out it for a
little while and may come up with some extra questions so just drop me
an e-mail and include whatever other info that would be helpful.

\[00:19:04\] Okay I\'ll send you an email I\'m going to follow up with
you in a week or two and see if anything else. Yeah just just feel free
to ping me. All right. Thank you Paul. Great thanks.

\[00:19:11\] Applause should we talk about it a little bit.

\[00:19:19\] Yeah yeah. A short quick quick recap.

\[00:19:22\] I mean so this is one where it\'s a business that I don\'t
know anything about. So there is there has to be like a pretty strong
educational component to start with. And so it definitely help
especially that you\'re able to give like some high level overview and
especially like trying to understand just like the fundamentals of like
what drives the business.

\[00:19:46\] Because for me like by default assumption about the world
is that 99 percent of people want to just keep doing the same thing that
they do day after day unless they have no choice.

\[00:19:58\] And so like change happens when people are like pushed and
so like the commodities trader with the margins where it\'s like he is
going to lose money if he doesn\'t get the right ship or whatever like
that makes sense right. Because it actually becomes like a competitive
thing where the people who adopt the technology will defeat those who
don\'t.

\[00:20:17\] Right.

\[00:20:19\] That\'s one thing at the end. Don\'t leave a meeting
without some plan for a follow up. It\'s like really good to just say
like can I e-mail you should we meet again. What are your thoughts. I
always have to ask it. You shouldn\'t just say I like can I have a
check. After first meeting that really annoys me I think and always even
more people look at us. But it is always good to ask for a follow.

\[00:20:40\] You were really good by the way.

\[00:20:42\] Good job it\'s a it\'s a tough it\'s tough to pitch up
applause applause.

\[00:20:49\] All right. We would normally talk about this for longer but
we\'re running a little bit over so we\'ll move on to the next one.

\[00:20:54\] Thank you very much Mike never mind. Laughter.

\[00:21:13\] Hello. Hello.

\[00:21:17\] Good to see you. How\'s everybody.

\[00:21:24\] So hi. Hi.

\[00:21:29\] My name is Kelly Thomas Drake and I am the president and
founder of my purple folder my purple folder is a hip a compliant global
healthcare app that provides consumers easy access.

\[00:21:46\] One Stop Shop leveraging and connect insisting patient data
while also delivering hospitals and physicians decreased administrative
costs associated with patient care and improved patient experience.

\[00:22:01\] So is this like the EMR thing.

\[00:22:05\] Is this my health record. It\'s actually all of them
combined in one.

\[00:22:12\] I\'m having trouble wrap my head around. So is this is this
something that I as a patient want. Or is it something for doctors.
Who\'s the customer.

\[00:22:20\] So the actual end user is the patient the caregiver which
is their family member and it\'s called my purple folder because I kept
everything in a purple accordion folder.

\[00:22:34\] When I was going through this with my grandmother.

\[00:22:36\] OK. So this is a place that I keep all of my medical
records essentially.

\[00:22:41\] So essentially if you\'re from the Bay Area and you have a
clipper pass and you can go from fairy to BART to Muni to all of these
different transportation systems with one pass. That\'s what my purple
folder is.

\[00:22:57\] So he says too abstract for me so I mean I\'ve been to
hospitals and things like like what is the problem that it solves for me
is the problem that I have to move my medical records out.

\[00:23:07\] I\'m still trying to figure out is this for my medical
records or is it something other than medical records.

\[00:23:11\] So I\'d like to tell you that answer through a story
basically. So as of 2011 a federal piece of legislation was passed
called meaningful use which made an already antiquated system more
disjointed. So my mother as of late was diagnosed with breast cancer she
is better now she\'s in remission. However she went from having one
patient portal on one hospital campus to seven because of hospital
health care systems being so federally compliant that they forgot about
you and me. The patient the caregiver the human. So this is a Go-Between
no matter what patient portal no matter what hospital healthcare system
no matter what city state country. This is global access coordinated all
at the top of my at my purple folder the patient care easy button.

\[00:24:07\] So it\'s my medical records.

\[00:24:10\] Laughter is that right. Is it just yes or no. Is it my
medical records. Yes. In addition to some things. OK.

\[00:24:19\] What else is it.

\[00:24:20\] So it\'s my medical records and medical records it chair
health care legal records.

\[00:24:26\] So like my my what do you call it.

\[00:24:29\] If I had a DNR some hate it would be in there is that so I
keep my will in there or other advanced medical directives advance
directives medical power returning durable power of attorney. We have a
universal HYP agreement because I also feel that when you\'re caught
like a deer in the headlights and thrust a clipboard you shouldn\'t have
to answer legal questions. Then you should have figured out already.

\[00:24:55\] I see so I\'ve got all that. So once I have this I walk
into the doctor\'s office and I say hey good news I\'ve got my Purple
folder here and the doctor says that\'s awesome. Or dich.

\[00:25:09\] Like does it work if the hospital or medical facility I go
to does not yet have your software or do they have to be like do you
need to sell all the medical offices before it works for me as a
patient.

\[00:25:21\] Absolutely not. The way that we do it is we the environment
is right for doing the digitized version of what I did for my
grandmother and what I\'ve learned as of late. So and what we\'ve
developed so we leverage and connect existing patient data.

\[00:25:34\] We connect to the backend EMR systems so that you the new
care provider says Oh well I don\'t have that yet.

\[00:25:43\] We send it through geo location technology. You receive a
double of seven encrypted link and you put it in your system as you
like. Okay great. Well we\'re all out of time. But thank you very much.
Thank you.

\[00:25:57\] Explorer before I start we have a little surprise we found
PBS Kids Thomas and Camilla backstage.

\[00:26:08\] They want to say hello to all of you. You could give them a
round of applause.

\[00:26:15\] Why see winter 2024. We\'re excited. Thanks for coming in.

\[00:26:25\] All right. So we\'ll do the same thing again. I know very
little about this business.

\[00:26:31\] All the numbers will be as close to my memory as I can
remember or think from what I\'ve read earlier but they\'ll be made up.
All right. Hey Paul I\'m from my purple folder. Hi. So healthcare in
theU.S. is horrible. We spend nineteen point five percent of our GDP on
it and we have the lowest satisfaction of any developed nation. And you
might wonder why that is. Do you have any idea. You have lots of ideas.
Well I would actually love to hear before we jump in.

\[00:26:57\] What do you think is the single biggest driver I mean I
think there\'s no underlying economic model other than driving the costs
higher. Fundamentally right. Right. Make more money by driving costs up.

\[00:27:09\] So we think the same thing. You have this like runaway
growth because there\'s just no incentive to do anything but charge
more. Do more tests do more procedures and the patience out of control.
So our whole goal is to put health care back in the hands of the patient
so they have a sense of what\'s going on and see everything in one place
as we\'ve had this explosion patients have data on six or seven
different systems. They have prescriptions they have appointments they
have communication with doctors. Most people can\'t use all the systems
or one. And so we\'ve just tried to make one consumer portal for all
your medical records and any other medical data you have if you have
this. You can actually understand your care or family members care and
actually have a much better experience and hopefully over time drive the
cost way down in the process. We become one central repository for all
patient health data that actually works.

\[00:27:56\] So basically as a patient I just this just has all of my
medical records in there that I can yeah.

\[00:28:02\] So we make that work magically we connect with every system
we don\'t have to do any deal with them. We just use the API that they
have to have or secure email whatever they have. But we make it work so
that as a patient you just say you know I need to connect to these
systems or your doctor can send you invites and then you can do
everything in one app.

\[00:28:20\] I see now I. Is this something you sell to the patients
search of the doctors. Who\'s the customer here.

\[00:28:27\] Today we\'re going to sell to patients. It\'s really hard
as you may know to try to sell things to doctors and hospitals. But we
have we have customers with you know their hair on fire this burning
problem of not being able to manage their health care or the health but
what is the thing that actually drives somewhat like what is the moment
where like my hair is on fire.

\[00:28:45\] Well one particular scary story from a friend of mine was a
missed message about a potential cancer screen.

\[00:28:52\] But it\'s usually something like that someone gets really
sick or something bad happens because of a lack of information and
communication.

\[00:28:58\] And so the pitch to me as a consumer is that this brings
together all of my information just so that I can like peruse my medical
records. Like what am I doing with it.

\[00:29:09\] Well it\'s so that you can get better care like that. The
issue that many people are taking care of a sick parent or grandparent
have run into the issue where they don\'t know what to do. You know the
patient doesn\'t remember something or the family member doesn\'t
remember something. And the idea is like these are complicated things
you\'d really like to have a single set of information that says here\'s
when you need to take these medications here are these test results. You
have to go in to get this test. This doctor said this thing wants you to
tell tells other doctor it really is just about you know better care and
people are willing to pay an unlimited amount of money if they can get
that actually to be good. Are they paying you an unlimited amount of
money right now. So we\'ve just started charging we unlike most health
care companies don\'t want to drive the cost of health care up and up
and up. We kind of hate it when people say oh I\'m a medical device for
you know seven dollars and charge 22000 because insurance will pay me.
That\'s not who we want to be. So we\'re only going to charge ninety
nine dollars a year per patient although over time we\'ll become such a
power. How many customers do you have at that price. This is made up we
have 150 so far and we\'re growing at 12 percent per week.

\[00:30:10\] All right well I\'m all out of time.

\[00:30:12\] But I think you want to invest. You want to learn more what
you how do you think about. Yeah you know it\'s.

\[00:30:19\] It\'s definitely an area that I\'m interested in but I
think I need to learn more about the products and maybe you can send me
all the financials from there.

\[00:30:28\] Okay great. Thanks. Thanks.

\[00:30:36\] I probably butchered that sorry. I don\'t believe you did.
All right. I\'ll hop back down the aisle and saying my my business to
everybody. All right.

\[00:30:46\] So this is a tricky one because like we spent a lot of time
with me just trying to wrap my head around what it is and to be totally
honest I\'m still not entirely sure.

\[00:30:56\] I think it\'s basically a thing that brings together all of
my medical records right.

\[00:31:01\] And this is a really common thing where Starfighter say
nutted out. It\'s that like a thousand other things but it\'s really
important especially at an early stage that you be able to be focused.
So you know if you can say yes it\'s that but here\'s the part that\'s
really exciting is it grows bigger. But I need to be able to wrap my
head around it otherwise it\'s almost like it\'s like a Christmas tree.
You want to hang the ornaments off but without the tree like it\'s just
ornaments smashing on the floor. So like I need to have that that like
concrete framework in my head first.

\[00:31:34\] So like the first thing I ran into is just like unsure what
the product is.

\[00:31:39\] Me too. It\'s always so tempting to try to tell this sort
of grandiose and exciting story but if you can\'t if the person you\'re
pitching can\'t understand what you actually do today in the first 30
seconds the pitch is unlikely to get better from there. And so just like
saying in plain language just what the product actually does what a user
can do who your customer is what they pay you for what your product
does. It\'s super important.

\[00:32:04\] In fact this is once you\'re NYC. This is the first thing
that we work on. So it\'s not easy like it takes the companies NYC
usually about a month to get it right. So every time we meet with them
in regular office hours or especially we have a thing called group
office hours. The very first thing that each company has to do is give
me either one line description and usually at the start of the batch
it\'s all incomprehensible. And so it\'s something that you know it\'s
normal that that you have that because almost every company we fund
customer like I have.

\[00:32:37\] That sounds like a disease. It\'s learning how to easily
curable. Yeah. Learning learning how to really reduce things to their
essentials is super important but not always easy.

\[00:32:49\] That is the number one skill of pitching to to practice.
All right. I think we\'re way out of time. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you.
