**Reham Fagiri and Kalam Dennis at Startup School SV
2016-ANrzH3ra8e8.mp4**

\[00:00:05\] Welcome back. So it\'s. An amazing morning and one of the
questions I get asked a lot is how can we fund both a 10 minute meal
kits and quantum computers at the same time in the secret our secret is
that we we have a simple focus which is that we fund great founders. And
that\'s why I\'m excited to bring out the founders of app Deko Rahamim
and column and they went through Y Combinator the winter 2014 batch.
About two and a half years ago they never got a lot of hype or. You know
investors dumping mountains of money on them. But what they did do is
month after month they keep iterating. They stayed scrappy and they\'re
building a great business and in a difficult market where a lot of other
companies who did raise a lot of money burn through that money and went
out of business. But meanwhile they built an actual profitable business
like the kind where every month they have more money in the bank account
than they did the month before. So I\'m excited to bring out the
founders of apt.

\[00:01:20\] Thank you.

\[00:01:30\] Good afternoon everybody. How are you doing.

\[00:01:35\] I\'m on energy. My name is Carlo. This is my co-founder
Rahamim.

\[00:01:42\] And asP.B. mentioned we are the founders of apartment Decco
apartment Decco is a marketplace for buying and selling furniture. And
you may not heard us heard of us before because we are currently
operating in New York City in WashingtonD.C. We have a team of people
would shout out. We have a team of 50 employees. We\'re going to be
expanding to Philadelphia Baltimore Boston in the next few months. And
as we mentioned one thing that we\'re really proud of is that we are
profitable and that is something that we want to talk with you guys
about today. We have kind of some things up in a car park. Clause
there\'s this concept of building a real business an idea which means
that if a business is profitable it makes money and that can
surprisingly get lost in this Silicon ValleyV.S. world.

\[00:02:50\] And we\'ve launched this company in winter 2014 and we\'ve
had a lot of ups and downs. A lot of roller coasters in order to get to
this point.

\[00:02:59\] And what we want to do is share some real actual stories of
the trials and tribulations of what it\'s taken in order for us to be
able to get here. And we\'re really excited to do that with you guys
today.

\[00:03:13\] So first things first let\'s get from zero to one. Many of
you I\'m assuming you\'re probably looking to start a company and the
idea of getting from no customers to getting that first customer.

\[00:03:29\] It\'s not so easy. That\'s me.

\[00:03:33\] And before starting apartment Decco I worked for L\'Oreal.
I was a vice president of marketing. I had a group of a large number of
employees and I was very familiar or comfortable with taking a large
business and keeping that growing and keeping that sustainable.

\[00:03:49\] Same for me. I also came from a corporate background I
worked at Goldman Sachs for six years before leaving and go to business
school. I was an engineer and ran a team of engineers before leaving
Goldman. So we both have this in common where we know how to get
something not from zero to one but from maybe a thousand to 2000 not
from 0 1 so that\'s what\'s great about Lycee right.

\[00:04:15\] So this is a completely different beast and a completely
different animal and I honestly thought that you know I can apply these
practices and that was was not true.

\[00:04:25\] So when I got to why we had to take a lot of a lot Lycee CW
by the way before it\'s put me on blast.

\[00:04:34\] Laughter Yeah.

\[00:04:36\] It\'s true a little ashamed to admit it now but when we
started at Decco as a concept then I didn\'t even know why he was and we
are really grateful to have an opportunity to work with them because it
is what catapulted us and helped us to get from that zero to one.

\[00:04:53\] So the way this works is we would sit down with our partner
that we work. Who was Kevin Hale. And I\'ll never forget this one of the
first meetings that we had. He\'s sitting down and he\'s looking at our
Web site is looking at our catalog and he\'s kind of looking through the
listings that\'s on our Web site and he asks How are you guys going to
listings today.

\[00:05:14\] And we say well we email people on craigslist and we say
hey listen apartment Decco because we take care of delivery.

\[00:05:20\] We do X Y and Zeme by readers like me mostly trolling
Craigslist like emailing people.

\[00:05:27\] Very very hackey.

\[00:05:30\] And so he\'s like okay so out of 100 people that you e-mail
how many actually list maybe 10. And so he\'s like well what about the
other 90.

\[00:05:44\] We don\'t know 90. And so he\'s like you need to list it
for them. And I remember looking at Rahamim and I\'m like like
unbeknownst to them like without like found commissionaire at all.

\[00:06:00\] And so he\'s like yeah he\'s like listen you\'re doing them
a favor and you listen for them. And if it sells that means they\'re
getting what they want they sell their item.

\[00:06:09\] Well OK. All right. So there we go we start listing our
items listening credulous items on our site unbeknownst to the sellers
and boom we start getting a transaction immediately.

\[00:06:25\] So yes. So you know we\'re high five. And then we\'re like
laughter Oh shit like we have I\'m a buyer.

\[00:06:34\] How are we actually going to get this item from this
person. That doesn\'t even know that it\'s on the furniture.

\[00:06:40\] So it\'s yes you have to physically move it right.

\[00:06:44\] So we\'re sitting in the community area. That\'s not us.

\[00:06:48\] But that was what we were rather large.

\[00:06:54\] But you know you get you get the you go. You get what I\'m
saying. Like hardly thinking.

\[00:06:59\] So we\'re there we\'re like how the hell are we going to
get this item. I\'m like you know what let\'s email them and say hey
I\'m the founder of Art Deco we drive and we sold it for you on our
site.

\[00:07:12\] Remember this is Craigslist was nine out of ten e-mails
people get our spam and people are trying to you know get money wired to
Nigeria. So.

\[00:07:22\] So we\'ve seen these nicely drafted letter head type
e-mails and we got no responses back and so we\'re like now we have not
one cell we have transactions that have come in like how the hell we\'re
going to fulfill these orders. And so we\'re sitting there. My face is
in my hands and I\'m like you know like let\'s just get cash and just
pick it up and buy it ourselves.

\[00:07:48\] And that\'s exactly what we did. So we have this bag of
cash and we\'re going around New York City counting nightwear and we
walk in.

\[00:07:57\] We meet the seller and we\'re like here\'s your 5000 jobs
for your couch. Someone will be on Tuesday to pick it up. And the
response was just shock in delight from these sellers. And they just
couldn\'t believe that we were just going to leave this 500 dollars and
come back later and pick it up and we said oh by the way you know it if
we selling other items you should actually sit on the side of Herman
Decco. This hack is what got our business off the ground and to got us
from zero to 1 This by the way.

\[00:08:31\] This is a shocking approach. We tried a lot of different
things.

\[00:08:34\] Rain

\[00:08:34\] did not work. But this was the first thing that really got
the business catapult it allowed us for us to get significant listening
and to get it get the business to where it needed to be. Another thing
was that we were able to get insights into our customers that we never
would have had before.

\[00:08:52\] So remember we\'re going to every sellers home paying them
in cash going all over New York City all day long.

\[00:08:58\] So we\'re again getting to know these customers on a very
intimate level where they live their economic status. Many times they
were making room for a baby. And all these things that we never would
have known unless we figure it out and had a scrappy way in order to
understand these customers.

\[00:09:18\] So what would you say are the key lessons or takeaways.

\[00:09:22\] So this is our story right. This is something that we did
that was a little bit out of the ordinary for us. And that made us
uncomfortable but I think that that\'s the exact key takeaway is that
when you\'re starting a business. First of all let\'s just scrap the
advertising on Facebook and advertising on Twitter or wherever and you
really need to find those scrappy free ways in order to see if your
product is something that customers are responding to because it is also
an opportunity for you to meet your customers and really learn what
despotically to look like. Exactly. So it\'s also looking to is really
just having the ability to humble yourself. For us this was. Again is
coming from our backgrounds was really quite frankly very uncomfortable
and you know we\'re in the street passing out flyers and run around town
in a cast that just seems so ghetto.

\[00:10:14\] But that doesn\'t mean he does not pass out on the street.
Was mostly me again.

\[00:10:21\] Laughter.

\[00:10:28\] But you know these are the things that we did that really
helped helped us to get from that zero to one.

\[00:10:36\] The second thing we wanted to talk to you guys about was
the idea of don\'t get married to a certain parts of some of you or
maybe most of you are thinking of starting a business working on a
business. Have an idea that you know that you\'re thinking of working on
and you might have this vision of what it needs to look like and just
don\'t focus on what this grand vision is because you never know what is
actually going to end up looking like. So when we first started the
company our idea was hey we are just going to be a platform we are not
gonna touch this furniture we are going to be the facilitator we want to
be like an urban bee or an Uber. Morrison neonate touching furniture was
not part of our equation so we built our platform with the idea that
we\'ll plug into third party moving companies around New York City. So
we worked with a lot of different companies and we would plug into their
excess capacity. So whatever they had enough space they would plug in
and we would use them for to fulfill orders. It worked for them probably
late one point five seconds. And quickly after that we realized that
they wanted their prices to continue to go up and we need to maintain
our prices low. The other thing is we were just not a priority for them
at all. So our quality of service continued to go down and until we had
to make some quick changes. Actually there was like one Saturday where
the moving company was like Listen we\'re too busy you\'re discovering
all these jobs you\'re just going to cancel them last minute. And so we
scrambled posted an ad on Craigslist again for a different section this
time and looked for two guys to hire. Got us a van and we went and did
the deliveries ourselves. It was phenomenal. So we actually had maybe
three or four different customers call us that day for the first time
ever just because they felt like this was the most amazing moving
experience they\'ve ever had. And it was supposed to have been a light
bulb moment because it\'s the first time that customers just wanted to
give us feedback and comment on the incredible experience that they were
getting.

\[00:13:00\] So just take us back.

\[00:13:01\] So we\'ve been doing deliveries eight nine months we had
never we had never had one call from customers saying Oh I love the
delivery.

\[00:13:10\] Never ever. And then one day we had three to four. So I was
like you know what let\'s just get a van and let\'s just do it
ourselves.

\[00:13:17\] And I was like No no overhead remember we need to be like
Uber. We want to be a platform we don\'t want to touch anything
ourselves. No physical products.

\[00:13:26\] So we as co-founder as we well know we had different
opinions and so so we met in the middle. So then the next idea was why
don\'t we get man in the van type of folks so people who own their own
trucks but they don\'t work for a moving company.

\[00:13:45\] It sounded great like they were cracking this is awesome.
So that did not work at all because that\'s what we ended up.

\[00:13:59\] I wish I was kidding but I\'m not. This is a real truck
that delivered our furniture in New York City. It. Is actually a photo
that a customer centers. She loved our product and she loved what we\'re
doing. She\'s like you guys this is just not a true representation of
your brand.

\[00:14:18\] We decided we\'d be a little more polished and you know our
neighbors are getting scared.

\[00:14:25\] Anyway so so the quality was again not their brand
recognition and focusing on that was not there. So you know we were
fighting this idea of like hey we need to do is platform we need to be
you know we don\'t want to touch furniture and we were really really
fighting this and married to this idea for so long.

\[00:14:49\] But you know months before that we already knew that
customers wanted us to deliver ourselves because we saw it happen and it
worked really really well. So finally we landed on having our own trucks
having our own deliver folks. And that\'s when everything changed.

\[00:15:06\] That\'s me and our head of logistics. We are actually our
first truck. I was very very very excited that we got around. So this
was it was instrumental for our business.

\[00:15:20\] We were able to reduce cost increase actually control
pricing for our customers make it a revenue stream and also it
absolutely changed are they that dynamic of our business. So before we
had our own delivery trucks word of math probably a word of mouth
probably accounted for around 10 percent of our business after we
changed to the model that we knew already worked months ahead of months
before it countertrend 60 70 percent of our business delivery was this
delightful experience that everyone before hated. Nobody was moving
nobody. Everybody hates moving. Nobody wants to deal with it. And then
we were just offering such a delightful experience that people loved it
and told everyone about it. That was sort of like ha you know what do
you call the X factor for our business. So we were really really
fighting that for so long. And you know this is really one of the key
things that we wanted to talk to you about.

\[00:16:27\] But also this is a good idea. It worked but that doesn\'t
mean that it hasn\'t come without its own hiccups.

\[00:16:35\] We recently our truck completely exploded one of our trucks
completely exploded. True story.

\[00:16:44\] So we actually have this thing where we like listen
delivery guys. If there\'s an issue you e-mail us only if something
crazy happens when you call and they still like they\'re like listen
hey.

\[00:16:59\] I\'ve left I left a tool in because it was Palmer they\'ll
call us for that. So usually it\'s like cried wolf type of thing. So
they\'re calling like what do you want. Like the vehicle exploded.

\[00:17:11\] We

\[00:17:11\] didn\'t believe it because what does that even mean. And
they said This is video and we actually know it exploding. So you know
again this is a great idea.

\[00:17:21\] It doesn\'t come when it\'s obviously challenges despite
having a vehicle that exploded literally the steel the businesses that
we could have.

\[00:17:28\] Definitely.

\[00:17:29\] So besides that in showing that insurance is important what
are the key takeaways.

\[00:17:36\] Insurance is definitely very important. Really don\'t be
married to this one idea. Let your customers dictate what your business
should bevs. what you think it needs to be. Embrace change. You know a
startup is all ever evolving so you really should be embracing that idea
and learning from your customers.

\[00:18:01\] So become default life.

\[00:18:04\] There is an amazing essay by Paul Graham asking if you are
default alive or default dead. And I would really encourage all of you
guys to read it if you have. But basically the long and the short of it
is what is default alive is essentially. Do you have enough money in the
bank based on your current expenses to where you will not run out of
money. If you have never have to raise another dollar again. So it means
like are you going fast enough in order to get past your threshold of
Statik or expenses. Hopefully the static worth are going up. So back in
2014 2015 we were growing really fast but our expenses were growing fast
too and we were burning a lot of money and not growing fast enough in
order to be default alive.

\[00:18:53\] For more like we know we just won it was sort of the
environment. Don\'t worry about your bottom line only focus on growth
growth with top line growth right.

\[00:19:03\] So we were saying to ourselves if we can grow fast like
this and lots of companies are raising we\'ll just grow fast will grow
the topline numbers will raise money. We\'ll continue to grow grass. The
bottom line that\'s really a secondary component. We hit all our goals
that we set for that year.

\[00:19:18\] But we could not raise and we were we had around 3 to 4
months of money left in order to before we were going to die
holistically.

\[00:19:31\] And so this was a really you know we talk about Sartor\'s
being a roller coaster and this was the part where we had a really
difficult decision to make and that decision was Can Dekle stand on its
own two feet without having the crutch of DC funding so that means that
we had to take a look in the mirror when building a real business
building a real business.

\[00:19:55\] So we cut our marketing to zero dollars. We weren\'t
spending a dollar on marketing. We had to cut costs in various areas. We
we also had to.

\[00:20:07\] Cut our marketing costs. I just generally looked at our
unit economics so looked at our revenue and looked at our expenses made
sure that we\'re profitable from delivery. We made sure that our unique
Unicon customer acquisition cost where at that point where there was
zero but there were profitable as well.

\[00:20:25\] So this was a really tough decision and we had to raise
prices on customers as well in areas where we were offering something at
a price that was just not feasible and not realistic.

\[00:20:36\] And so that is if you had to make these decisions and say
Is this something that people are willing to pay for we made those
decisions for us at that time was a very difficult moment and a very
nerve racking moment.

\[00:20:49\] But it was the best thing that we could have ever done
because it allowed for us to be able to grow our business in a healthy
way continue to grow and also become truly profitable more money and
then more money going out. And this is the reason why we\'re profitable
today and it puts us in a position to have much more negotiating power.

\[00:21:06\] If we decide to ever decide to raise it get so what are
what would you say the key takeaways are don\'t die. That\'s one.

\[00:21:19\] Really understand your bottom line. That is one thing that
we pore over constantly looking at literally every expense and this is
really it\'s really easy to get away from as you are building a business
and it\'s actually sad to kind of say that but you mentioned the rise of
not many that tooth and nail very meticulously.

\[00:21:42\] I look at our expenses every month like I call our data
from our bank account and look at every single line item because we
would never want to go back to that situation again and we look at that
for future months as well.

\[00:21:52\] And then the last thing is this unit economics. So how much
of delivery cost. How much are you charging for it. The part though what
you\'re charging is a commission for your business or however you
Monitise does it support the things that you need to be able to grow it
particularly from almost all foreign business.

\[00:22:09\] This is something that\'s needed right because you\'re
actually physically moving products so there\'s a lot of expenditure
that goes with that. So the last thing that we wanted to talk to you
about is ignoring the noise so you know we had the slide right before
with all the headlines about you know is this a bubble or you know it\'s
easy to fundraise. It\'s not easy to fundraise. There\'s all these
chatter out there. But we had to really learn especially what we just
told you about being default alive and what we had to do for our
business to learn to really completely ignore the noise because we had
we need to focus on our business. So we put on our headphones and
completely ignored everything that literally that\'s what we had to do.
And you know there\'s like the investor noise there\'s competitors
there\'s just all kinds of noise. It\'s not just what people are saying
in the press. So we had this one competitor that had raised 20 times the
amount of money that they had. They were growing so fast and they were
all over the news.

\[00:23:11\] They were oh my gosh everything everywhere we went through
was a what about them employing hundreds of employees. Exactly.

\[00:23:18\] So it was just you know we consume so much of our energy
thinking about what\'s their next move. How could this impact us. And it
really distracted us it distracted us for some time from focusing on the
things that really matter which are what we\'ve already discussed is
what your customers want. Building a real business. Making sure that you
or I continue to build that word of mouth. So ultimately they ended up
folding. So all that time and energy that we expensed worrying about
what they shirt what they were doing and how this would impact us
didn\'t really matter. And you know ultimately for us this was a big
learning and something that we really want to emphasize because there\'s
just so much noise out there when you\'re building a business you really
need to focus on the things that you can control yourself. You are
essentially the desk you are in control of your own destiny not the
Vichy funding in climate or your competitors or anything of that nature.

\[00:24:23\] If you\'re building anything worthwhile you\'re going to
have a better it\'s going to have someone over there now or they\'re
going to be there tomorrow.

\[00:24:31\] But who decides who\'s going to last customers mostly
customers and building something that people want.

\[00:24:39\] Some of them absolutely yeah. I mean it just block your
brain. Once you get to profitability you really in control of everything
and this is why we\'re very excited about the next chapter for up echo.
So this is still we\'re still very early on in our journey. We\'ve you
know we\'re only two years and a half in this these are some of the
lessons that we\'ve learned along the way. We\'ve heard them many times
through wifie and all the way he chats but we\'ve sort of had to also
learn them the hard way and we hope that you guys can take some of these
lessons and apply them to whatever you work in the business or part of a
company or what have you. These are lessons that you can definitely take
on for the future. My father has a saying.

\[00:25:25\] My father has a saying you know better you do better.

\[00:25:29\] And we knew better but we weren\'t doing better. And I hope
that you know what you take from that is seeing some of the things the
pitfalls that we\'ve had in order for you guys to grow successful
companies in order to do the next great thing. So we appreciate your
time. Thank you guys so much and have a great day.
