**Reid Hoffman at Startup School SV 2016-ysz1xLMd37Y.mp4**

\[00:00:04\] So up next needs no introduction. I\'ll give a very quick
one. Reid Hoffman has been. Yeah there\'s a round of applause. Applause
You know what it sounds like you know who he is. I\'ll skip the
introduction. All right. For the first question.

\[00:00:21\] Tell us something you believe to be true that very few
people agree with you on.

\[00:00:26\] Well this room actually may actually agree with us but I
think this is when you count the Globe The Globe The Globe. That
question always has to be indexed against the population. But I would I
would say is that we have an extremely high likelihood that within the
next 50 to 100 years that we create another cognitive speciese.g. a
species with a similar kind of or better cognitive abilities than we do
people in this room normally tend to think that\'s artificial
intelligence. But actually I think it\'s a jump ball between that and a
different version of the homogeneous we\'re in actually relatively
interesting and unique period by which homosapiens is the only part of
the homogeneous because there was Florences and Neanderthal and so forth
and when you consider longer timeframe is actually 40 50000 years ago is
actually not that long ago. So I think we\'re gonna do that and it\'s
conditioned upon Are there particular breakthroughs inA.I. which I think
there is still some invention and magic to get a truly generalisedA.I.
which may or may not happen quickly if it does than is likely if it
doesn\'t then the homogeneous is likely just for fun and you don\'t have
to answer this if you don\'t want but given that you made the point
about indexing that question against the rest of the world and then many
people in this room may agree with that although I would still but most
don\'t.

\[00:01:54\] What is something that you believe that very few people in
this room would agree with you on.

\[00:02:00\] Let\'s see in this room OK. Trying to index that I guess.

\[00:02:12\] Well this might be they hadn\'t thought about it. I think
that one of the things that\'s actually really important for inventing
products is a fairly deep sense of a theory of human nature and
humanity. And so I think that anyone who is inventing the kinds of
products that we typically do you should actually in fact be able to
articulate a relatively robust theory about what is human nature what is
humanity like now and where is it going and how does your product or
service fit into that. And that may not be so much they disagree as
actually. Most people I talk to can\'t articulate a particular robust
theory of human nature and that\'s one of the reasons why years back as
you know I started saying this thing I invest in one or more of the
seven deadly sins because I was trying to get people to think about what
is actually in fact a kind of common human psychology and if you\'re
trying to create a mass market consumer application what are the parts
of how what it is to be human that you\'re actually triggering
responding to us servingetc.

\[00:03:19\] That\'s a great answer that most people in this room don\'t
think about that or don\'t agree it\'s important. So I want to talk
about three main topics here. One is not the mistakes that people make
when they start a company but the great things people do. Everyone
worries about trying to avoid mistakes. That\'s not enough. You also
have to do one thing really right. The second is how to raise money from
Graylock and the third is how to scale up a company and when to start
that. So let\'s start with the first. What are the things that you see
entrepreneurs do. At the very beginning that are the opposite of
mistakes that lead them to great results.

\[00:03:56\] So I think one of the let\'s see we could spend a whole
half hour entirely on this but I\'ll try to do what I gave you three
questions up front so you could allocate time. Yes. So one thing is
build the strongest possible network around you and every single thing
you\'re doing whether it\'s hiring whether it\'s getting investors
whether it\'s who you\'re talking to about your company. Obviously Y C
is a opportunity to generate a really strong network. And I think
specifically in terms that it\'s not just like what do you think of the
idea that\'s usually a weak question How can my idea be improved if my
idea were to fail or my plan were to fail or my strategies fail. Why do
you think it would fail. Right. Asking those kinds of questions I think
another thing is to actually think about one of the challenges is it\'s
awesome that we have gotten to such a massive entrepreneurial
environment here. But for example breaking through the noise is really
tricky so you actually have to really test and think about whether or
not your idea will be sufficient to break through the noise. And so
folks who really think about like some way that they can either you know
grow on a particular platform or have a particular way that they can
actually get good growth into their product is you know someone that
sometimes has vitality. Sometimes CEOs sometimes other things.

\[00:05:25\] What are the early signs that an idea or particular product
may be able to break through the noise. What do you look for when
you\'re evaluating not because I think that is the critical thing but
it\'s so hard to to really know.

\[00:05:37\] Well obviously you know the obvious brain dead thing that
everyone knows is once you see traction. You still have some questions
How far does attraction go but that actually answers a bunch of those
because you can study the actual like okay. Are people engaging or are
they reengaging how did they discover it. And you can you can you can
you can per thing you can deconstruct the answer to your question. The
real challenging one is when you have the theories beforehand and the
theories beforehand a little bit of that comes back to what I was saying
in terms of a theory of human nature. You say OK why is it if it\'s
viral why will the Big Rallies spread. Some of that\'s technique. But
some of that\'s also it\'ll it will it will trigger a funny bone in some
way and I wouldn\'t have looked at Pok√©mon Go and said well actually in
fact this nostalgia thing will create a craze. I would have missed that.
But I learned I along with lots of other people I downloaded and played
with it immediately. OK how do I learn that pattern. What was the way
that was fitting into people\'s identity. Why was this the thing that
was creating something that literally spread through essentially what
now did you get really into it. Well. Let me put this way I. It became a
habitual thing that I would do during an Uber ride. I have no shame
I\'ll just that I was one of those people for a couple of days like 3:00
in the morning my brothers and I would like to be out driving around
Golden Gate Park trying to catch Pokemon dribble you know for me was
when I got an uber pull it up and I go because you know you had
advantage that someone else is driving you yelling at you can go through
all the poka stops and everything else at a reasonably fast clip. And so
the other thing is is is is there a principally protraction limit
tuition consuming enterprise in consumer. The principal thing is there
is actually an interestingly unique theory there\'s some kind of theory
together with some understanding about how distribution works that you
were applying. Like you say OK. I actually think people will send out
the mass messages or send out emails or this will get indexed and search
the falling way or people will actually in fact do the following
activities which will cause it that people will discover this app site
service and then that\'s a coherent theory. And that can sometimes be
sufficient for doing it on the enterprise side. Actually sometimes clear
mastery of traditional enterprise techniques is what matters right
because actually in fact if you have a relatively high like a a good
product in terms of what you could sell you can measure results you know
your sales channel looks like a sales process can work effectively but
those two things and the ability to pull them off are actually
absolutely central to the things that you do right. The most classic
problem Maju seen and I know you\'re toying with the success here but
the classic problem is I\'ve got a cool idea where someone doesn\'t have
a unique product and that\'s radically insufficient. You\'re making it
just lucky whether or not in fact the distribution works. And these
companies only grow to enough throw weight if they get to a point where
they have enough distribution. So roughly speaking one of the rules of
thumb that I use is if you don\'t if you don\'t see a path by which
you\'re getting to 100 million a year in revenue and then have good
growth after that you\'re not going to be a start. You have zero chance
of being a stand alone tech company.

\[00:09:04\] Just continue on the maybe one more but then I do want to
make sure we move on.

\[00:09:07\] I was just thinking about so then the other things I think
to do right are I think the key things are people who when when you\'re
doing this as they fail fast point which is you\'re looking for the
earliest possible proof to whether or not you\'re on the right track. It
isn\'t that you\'re trying to fail but you actually hunting for the
quickest and and and sometimes even argument evidence like for example
when I was literally had the idea falling down I was going around and my
friends going OK why won\'t this work. And the common pattern I was
hearing is because in a network there is no value to you have a million
people so no one\'s going to invite for the first million people.

\[00:09:52\] And the fact that I was that I knew that that was the thing
that test that was the thing that I was essentially working on from day
one to get to the minimum viable product in order to do that.

\[00:10:01\] Do you think that people give up too early related to that
or at least they\'re looking at the wrong metrics. One of the things I
see great founders do really well is not give up too early and it sounds
simple but in this kind of culture of you know try something if it
doesn\'t work fail fast stop. I do think you can lose a lot of great
companies.

\[00:10:25\] So definitely you can and it isn\'t to try to pick. Like
for example when I\'m talking entrepreneur the first time one of the
things I test for is kind of what I what I call flexible persistence
which is they\'ll both listen and hear the things I\'m saying. Questions
and they will adopt.

\[00:10:45\] But think about it they\'ll respond they may be willing to
consider that alter but then they also have conviction in their point of
view. They have a theory of humanity a theory of distribution a theory
of product that they go look I\'ve really thought through it and I think
some really good stuff here and this is why it is. And if you don\'t
have both you will almost certainly fail. And part of that is people\'s
I\'ll just pivot my way there and learn or know have a deeply thought
theory about what you\'re heading for And So Plan B frequently is not.
Oh now I\'m doing something entirely different. Usually plans B or
slight variations in tests. Will you do list your hypotheses about what
it is you think you\'re going to. Why you you\'re going to win at the
startup game. Then you start testing them part of a plan B is say well
maybe hypothesis 3 isn\'t right but 3 prime is right and I can just
shift a little bit of what I\'m doing this way and then it can work. And
so like for example like one of the thoughts that we had very early and
linked in is even though we made a very heavy debt on individuals as
would we need to shift to enterprise and companies and groups as a
possibility to make it work. It turned out that we needed to do that but
that was okay as a Plan B. And I think that staying persistent
ultimately really try it. You want to we\'re three points reducing your
confidence before you really decide to pivot.

\[00:12:07\] So in the interest of time let\'s move on to raising money.
If I want to come raise money from Graylock. What can I do to be
successful. What what is step one. And what is the last time before the
check and everything in between.

\[00:12:20\] So first and this is this is true for you know all top tier
viss is much stronger off getting a referral right now. Y Combinator
though. Well it\'s can be a referral from one of the partners
combinators Y Combinator. But it\'s it\'s the here\'s why you should pay
attention this. I probably get somewhere between 30 and 50 unsolicited
decks in my email every working day. Right. And so it\'s kind of like
okay.

\[00:12:50\] How many of us have you ever wondered. None that I\'m aware
of. I mean sometimes what so the intro is really important. It was
really important. Then who who counts as a good intro to you counts is a
good intro is someone that I that I know and trust and respect. Right.
So you have to guess that to some degree. But you know and here I\'ll
throw you under the bus. Sam counts right. So that\'s one.

\[00:13:21\] And the second is you know look again think of there\'s
tons and tons of startups and your average every venture capital it
looks at like 600 deals a year and funds between zero and two of them
which means you\'re looking for something that is a little like your
opening question you\'re looking for something is seriously unique
right. You\'re looking for something that says look it doesn\'t have to
be the only thing in its field although then it heads a bunch of things
in its field why will this one be the one that will break through. Why
will this one be the one that creates interesting company. But it\'s.
No. OK. And so that\'s part of the reason why what I suggest to people
who want to come talk to us is to say well what\'s the thing that either
has suddenly opened up or the thing that makes your thing going to be
very big when you when you realized there are thousands of startups now
which is great but you know given you can fun between 0 2 and so for
example in one of the ones I did the beginning of the year one called
convoy which is essentially Uber for regional trucking. And actually
that one took a bunch of work for me because there were a bunch of
people doing that. Right. And I had to look through to see which one was
the one to do because we can only do one. And what did that founder do
to convince you that that was the one. Well first came in through
through a great referral which is Hoddy Nyali Partovi right. Who had who
had done a whole bunch of work and had chosen us. Second is in the
discussion of literally in the very first discussion I got a very good
sense that the that the Founders Dan and Grant understood the game in
front of them they understood what the issues were they had thought
about. Like for them when I pushed them about what the comparisons and
thoughts with Uber were what was unique about this space why actually in
fact this is a very different network than that a new were network.

\[00:15:22\] What the challenges might be and they had actually thought
about all of it doesn\'t mean that perfect answers it doesn\'t change
but they had thought about it the way they were developing their product
was in line with that thinking and they had a story and this is one of
things that super important is like what is what. It\'s not to say you
say I\'m like What\'s uncredible you say I\'m guaranteed to be
successful I\'m coming in as a seed Series A and I\'m guaranteed to be
successful and that either says to me that you\'re crazy because you
don\'t actually understand the risk or you\'re lying to me. And both of
those are not great outcomes from the viewpoint of a partnership. And so
it\'s much better to say here in fact what I see the game in me here\'s
what I think the risks are. Here\'s how I\'m addressing the risk.
Here\'s how we\'re measuring and this is how I\'m doing. And by the way
have confidence that I\'m going to succeed. Great. Perfect. So that
ability to understand what the game is in front of you because then
you\'ll you\'ll pass it the right way. I think it\'s very important to
have an ability to have structured conversations early. It doesn\'t
necessarily mean you have to have a deck some conversations. I have
literally just Here\'s my set of beliefs that make me believe this
Sharpe\'s a good idea. It\'s like a list of the investment theses the
kinds of things that would say why it is this would be you know five to
seven years from now this would be Air B and B this would be something
that you would go oh my gosh this is a world changing company. Do you
recommend the deck.

\[00:16:55\] Wreck deck as a sort of PowerPoint. Yep. Generally speaking
I think it\'s good to have at least a lightweight one and that\'s
lightweight like 10 or 15 sides some basic.

\[00:17:10\] Could

\[00:17:10\] you just go quickly through that what what you expect to
see in those slides. Like one of the main five or six critical topics.
So I presume you guys point people to the linked in Series B deck that I
published. We have but maybe not this audience so republished as linked
in Series B deck and it\'s online and you should check it out.

\[00:17:28\] So

\[00:17:28\] this is roughly speaking you should open with. Here\'s my
here\'s here the hypotheses that back the investment thesis and that
should be probably no more than seven bullets. Usually it\'s more than
three but something that could be aid if it had to be. And then your
slides are the backdrop of those bullets. Why is it you think you\'ll
win at that. Right so for example you know there is actually a space for
professional networks separate from a social one. It will stall this
thing and people\'s lives you know that sort of thing is the kinds of
things that are in it and they can get distributed through reality and
we can we can solve the viral problem. Then I think you need to have
something about like OK what\'s the mature business. It\'s a sketch look
like it doesn\'t mean like oh here\'s my fake Excel revenue projections
which anyone with a brain knows you can make these things look like
anything but it\'s like. It\'s it\'s it\'s a oh we\'ll charging people
like this. This is why the product will be good this is why we\'ll have
good margins while we\'ll have a defensible position. This is why we\'ll
be a big size and this is what we\'ll be growing right. And so for
example that was one of the reasons why the pitch was really good from
beginning is like well we\'re eBay for space and we\'re starting with
travel and travel itself is huge and this is what the dynamics work in
terms of opening up liquidity between host and traveler. Okay I get it
right. That was one of the pitches little 2 minutes and you\'re like
okay understand. And by the way you understood the risk then to the risk
were like well Aschenbach people aren\'t used to this in opening your
house and reserve trust and safety issue and is there a regulation issue
and you know all these things but those are then these are known risks
than working against to claim zero competition is usually not credible.
Usually it\'s here\'s why The competition has a very different angle of
attack than I do and this is why my angle of attack would work. And then
you know kind of more or less like for example an early stage consumer
companies why it is I think this is going to work.

\[00:19:37\] And then can you give us a little bit of sense of how you
think about terms what terms are important to venture firm to an
entrepreneur and what a series they might look like.

\[00:19:47\] So to a venture firm part of the key thing is there\'s a
big difference in Angels and ventures. Angel can invest in a wide
variety of things they don\'t actually commit to doing that much. They
do commit to doing a little bit of help but not that much help venture
folks commit to. I\'m with the company more or less until it gets to
port or not. I can only do really. It\'s very rare that you can do that
a firm can do ones that are competitive so I can only do one of the
space and I\'m going to throw a bunch of resources behind it. You know
Andreessen Horowitz we other folks have like great recruiting practices
a number of things like that as a way of doing it like a Graylock Our
thing is we help people in companies find an engineer. Every other every
alternative day during the year and that\'s you know that\'s a pretty
good flow. And so typically the best way to do it is very clean. Terms
have have either one or at most two leads two leads tends to be more on
the enterprise side than the consumer. Somebody who is really going to
roll up their sleeves and work with you. That usually gets for venture
to a certain percentage typically. And it\'s actually not it\'s not an
artificial number. Most targeted to 20 percent or greater ownership
because when they look at when they do their models of what their
baskets of ownership are on exits if they have north of 20 percent then
they can make fun multiples work. And so that\'s the reason why that\'s
the target.

\[00:21:20\] What is a venture from as the 500 million dollar fund. What
is the return on that fund that the firm would like to hit to be really
great. Typically you would want to have two and a half billion dollars a
return. GROSS So five bucks. GROSS That\'s before the GPS TAKE THEIR
Carrion\'s.

\[00:21:37\] Yes that\'s that\'s a reasonable fund that isn\'t the you
know 10 plus X fund that you know all the top tier firms have hit at
some point. There are funds where you get that but that\'s they. Oh that
was a credible fund.

\[00:21:52\] So now I want to move on to the last topic. When you\'ve
done things well you\'ve made a good company you\'ve got a product
people like you\'ve raised a series A and now you transition to scale
up. You\'ve popularized that term. What does that mean and how do you
know when it\'s time to do it.

\[00:22:09\] So we taught a class that\'s online. You can find it at
Graylock and some other places I think on iTunes called Blits scaling.

\[00:22:18\] Sam was our opener was because we were essentially actually
building on the class that Salmons Helfand one or two years earlier.

\[00:22:26\] I can\'t remember exactly what it was and the key thing is
first mover means first to scale and most often both within the consumer
Enterprise the first the scale is the person who wins who owns the
market who sets the terms who gets the best advantages from the capital
market who gets the best advantages and tablet market is known to
customersetc. It isn\'t necessarily the first out of the gate it\'s the
first to scale. And so what that means pretty logically is your question
would be is you know typically a comfort for investors entrepreneurs
that say well let\'s completely resolve product market fit and then
scale and if you can do that and because you\'re doing it sufficiently
by yourself. You don\'t have aggressive competitors. Great. That\'s
that\'s the right way to do it. You can always understand here my
decision was working. My engagement model is working. I have a revenue
model that at least is basically works and maybe can be improved. And
now what I\'m just doing is figuring out how to how to accelerate that
as much as possible. More often than not in Silicon Valley you\'ve got
part of that story right. But you have intense enough competition that
you have to make a decision at a scale sooner than that. And part of
calling it blet scaling like one of the key things that if you actually
look around at part of what\'s happened the last 20 years is that
actually in fact startups will spend a bunch of capital at less
efficiency than you would typically think because like perfect
operational efficiency we know exactly what our model is rolling it out
in order to get to scale fast. And obviously Uber is the canonical
modern example of this and the decision to do that is partially a
question of both kind of offense and defense authentic in terms of what
I really need to establish myself. I need to get a critical mass in the
network in order to have the network effects as kind of like early
LinkedIn although we we eat that out in terms of an end. We didn\'t
actually blitz to the first million. We kind of compounded until we got
there so we were doing the other strategy because there was no one doing
our strategy all credibly close to us so we could take on or defensive
which is you\'re worried that someone else is going to get there first.
And so you actually have to put on the afterburners and then try to
adjust as you go. And that\'s the combination of offensive and defensive
reason is part of the decision that you\'re making about what about how
and when to do it. Now the other thing that\'s kind of classic and this
is you know kind of a line that probably you haven\'t seen that\'s in
the new draft of the book has built the scale which is when you begin to
look at each different key element that can make your business scale
quickly. It\'s like customer acquisition revenue model support model
servicing model how in each of these things growing your company how in
each of these things can you actually in fact get to a global scale
relatively quickly. Now it doesn\'t make sense to obsess with that
before you have when you have zero idea product market. It\'s only but
it is important to start thinking about it because the thing that makes
the really big businesses are the ones that can scale which direction do
you see more entrepreneurs making this mistake in 2016.

\[00:25:38\] Are they waiting too long to start scaling or are they
doing it too quickly.

\[00:25:44\] It\'s both it\'s not. I don\'t think it\'s kind of like oh
they\'re all like both mistakes are made. And you know the wait too long
is kind of the question of I\'d like to prove it out more. I\'m not
really that worried about competition. I\'d like to get complete
certainty about about what I\'m doing. The going too fast is I haven\'t
I haven\'t tested some key elements that are really important and then I
get way over my skis and it\'s hard to correct because at that point for
example you\'ve got investor expectations you raised a bunch of capital.
You need to pivot. It\'s actually difficult to set back to etc.

\[00:26:27\] Have you found any successful way to do that. If you do get
ahead of your skis because you\'re scared of a competitor but you find
out the product is not quite working yet and you do need to pull back
but you\'ve already raised this mega around on huge projections have you
ever seen a way to make that work.

\[00:26:44\] One doesn\'t immediately come to mind although the advice
that I would give would be this is one of the reasons why fundraising is
not just a capital thing it\'s a partnership question and if you
actually have a good partnership with the folks and you\'re kind of
saying look we\'re sharing risk or sharing analysis like for example
when you\'ve got the when you\'ve raised money you\'re not saying oh
it\'s guaranteed it\'s perfect it\'s all it\'s all in the bag and it\'s
all happening because then by the way very naturally your partners get
very grumpy with you right when it\'s not that. But look we\'re trying
this. We have we have good confidence at work but not perfect. We\'re
going to be a good partner with you. And then if you have that then
it\'s easy enough to go back and say look we need to really pivot and we
do something different I\'m sure there are examples but it\'s not it\'s
not immediately apparent to me.

\[00:27:29\] It\'s hard for me to think of one to one of the things that
I have seen our companies struggle with the most when it comes to
scaling quickly is how to identify enough good people to hire and
related to that how to keep the culture as you double in size in a short
period of time and then again and again and again. So to that joint
question of how do you identify really good people and how do you bring
them together in a way that preserves the company culture that got you
here in the first place. Can you share with us about that.

\[00:28:00\] So I\'ll start with the culture and then I\'ll go to the
hiring so culture part of the really key thing in culture is to and this
is actually like I interviewed Reed Hastings about that scaling. He\'s
actually a very good culture person. Part of the how he created the
Netflix stack and how they got to thinking about it was actually in fact
fairly key and that was kind of in the vein of they were discovering
that they\'d hire really good people who are still players but weren\'t
cultural fits and they would bounce out. And so the reason they codified
the deck and published it was to make sure they weren\'t going to have
that churn problem. You understand this is what we stand for. Now part
of the reason why codifying it is useful is because part of how you
scale a culture is that everyone is keeping each other accountable it\'s
not hierarch hierarchical it\'s not just oh whatever the two or three
founders say or one of the three founders say that\'s that\'s it. And
whatever changes. It\'s no this is who we are. This is how we play. This
is what we\'re doing and we\'re all holding each other accountable and
so for example one of the big ones for Reed Hastings was and is is not a
family where sports team. Right. And so it\'s not lifetime loyalty it\'s
we\'re all performing. And when you\'re doing your your your kind of
reviews of your team if you wouldn\'t fight to keep the person you
don\'t just go Oh they\'re out there they\'re perfectly good but you
wouldn\'t fight to keep them. You give them a severance package and you
move on because that\'s what your target is in terms of what you\'re
doing. And then there\'s other elements of culture like Do you really
value design. Do we really value an ability to you know like for example
in Illington cases the individual members first not the people who are
paying us money. It\'s each individual member and that\'s an important
part of the kind of culture and how we talk about like how we make
product decisions. So that\'s the cultural part. Then the hiring part.
One of the key things you can get. You have to correct for some
downsides of this. But obviously using your network is super important
because you get trusted connections and that can sometimes be you know a
little too a little too much all the same. Like one of the problems is
sometimes you your bad on diversity because of this is like oh well you
know we\'re a bunch of men so we get a bunch of other men and it\'s like
no no actually diversity makes you stronger so you should be doing that.
So networks can have that bias problem that you have to you have to
correct for systemically but you can still use the networks hunting.
Make sure you get the appropriate diversity of skills and perspectives
and awareness and you\'re in your company. Then the next thing is
reference checking. And to give you a specific example of something that
I do is usually what I\'m considering somebody if I can if I know a
couple people who know this person even before I decide to reach out
connection I\'ll frequently do a very light reference check because
reference checks tell you a lot more. Everyone is very good at and most
people are very good at seeming very coherent and reasonable in a in a
in a couple of interactions. The real thing you want is how does the
person work over weeks and months and years right in the trenches and
references are very good for that and of course references from people
you trust or people they trust is part of the right way to do that and
the way that I frequently do that as I\'ll send a note to people saying
Sam right I\'m one to 10. And the reason you want to 10 is because the
weak answer is usually 7 and a half. That\'s kind of the oh I want to
say bad things about Sam but I\'m not going to. And it\'s an e-mail and
it\'s totally fine. And what you\'re looking for is a combinations of
eight and nine. And when I get a 10 I are you alright backside. Oh
really like Sam\'s one of the best people you ever worked with. Right
just to make sure that this is you know this is kind of real. And then
when you have a blend of them that can give you a sense of whether or
not I should dig in more of this person. So networks referencing pre
referencing and and then definitely doing deep referencing. Now one of
the last things I\'d actually say in hiring is this is this is one of
the ones that I find particularly entertaining is actually spend a bunch
of time with the person. So if you\'re at the level of importance and
hierarchy in the company like don\'t think two or three interviews and
you\'re done when you\'re hiring. Look for example when I was hiring
Jeff I spent probably about 40 hours with Jeff in discussion before we
got to OK this is going to work. In addition all that referencing it was
super important and important to get right in executives it can easily
be 20 hours right. Sometimes it can be 10 to 15 because it\'s like OK.
Do I do I get a sense of how we play together. Not just the references
and e-mails. But but but how are problem solving techniques. Are our
values the way that we the things we want to accomplish. Are they
sufficiently alignedetc.

\[00:33:03\] Great well thank you very much for spending the afternoon
with us. Appreciate your thoughts.

\[00:33:08\] Applause.
